=== PAGE 1 ===
Engagement: Distributing
Marketing and Marketing
Cloud Connect
Last Updated:2026.06.19

=== PAGE 2 ===
© Copyright 2000–2026 salesforce.com, inc. All rights reserved. Salesforce is a registered trademark of salesforce.com, inc.,
as are other names and marks. Other marks appearing herein may be trademarks of their respective owners.

=== PAGE 3 ===
CONTENTS
Using Cross-Cloud Products with Marketing Cloud Engagement . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Distributed Marketing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Marketing Cloud Connect . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 154

=== PAGE 5 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and
Marketing Cloud Connect
Create a unified customer relationship by combining the marketing capabilities of Marketing Cloud
Engagement with Salesforce CRM.
Distributed Marketing
Distributed Marketing from Salesforce bridges the gap between corporate marketing, employees,
channel partners, and your brand to deliver consistent experiences across corporate marketing and
partner networks. Corporate marketers build and share on-brand, collaborative content in Marketing
Cloud Engagement. Distributed teams of advisers, partners, and more can view, personalize, and send
this content directly from CRM experiences such as Sales, Service, Financial Services, or Experience
Cloud.
Marketing Cloud Connect
Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement combines the digital marketing
capabilities of Engagement with the data management, segmentation, and campaign management
tools in Salesforce. Create unitary customer relationships with more data-driven, personalized
conversations and the ability to automate the customer journey. With Marketing Cloud Connect,
access powerful Engagement tools directly within Sales or Service Cloud. Ensure a consistent branding
and messaging experience, while engaging customers in relevant conversations and ultimately driving
more leads into Salesforce.
1

=== PAGE 6 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Distributed Marketing
Distributed Marketing from Salesforce bridges the gap between corporate marketing, employees,
channel partners, and your brand to deliver consistent experiences across corporate marketing and
partner networks. Corporate marketers build and share on-brand, collaborative content in Marketing
Cloud Engagement. Distributed teams of advisers, partners, and more can view, personalize, and send
this content directly from CRM experiences such as Sales, Service, Financial Services, or Experience
Cloud.
Note Marketing Cloud Next for Engagement includes platform-based functionality that replicates
the experience of Distributed Marketing. To make marketing-approved email templates available to
non-marketing users, check out Distributed Marketing and Alerts.
Distributed Marketing provides a managed package that is installed in your CRM environment. You can
install Distributed Marketing content blocks in your Marketing Cloud Engagement environment to easily
enable powerful content collaboration. All sends use the power of Marketing Cloud Engagement to help
teams of all sizes engage with their books of business reliably and at scale.
As a marketer with Distributed Marketing:
•
Enable your teams to engage with their book of business at scale with on-brand content.
•
Create moments of collaboration within email or SMS messages.
•
Maintain brand and legal compliance with automated and manual approval processes.
As an advisor, partner, or dealer with Distributed Marketing:
•
Send a personalized email to contacts, leads, or person accounts.
•
To send messages to groups of clients at once, use easy segmentation tools like list views.
•
Send multiple messages over time without worrying about managing the touchpoint cadence.
Note All documentation is based on the latest Distributed Marketing managed package.
Requirements for Distributed Marketing
Before installing Marketing Cloud Engagement Distributed Marketing, review the required products,
licenses, and permissions to help determine if you can use Distributed Marketing in your environment.
Within Distributed Marketing, certain features require complementary Salesforce products.
Requirements are noted in the feature’s setup instructions.
Get Started with Distributed Marketing
You saw the demos and identified compelling use cases that enable your advisors, partners, dealers,
and others to inform, market, and sell to their customers at scale. Now, it’s time to start setting up
Distributed Marketing for Marketing Cloud Engagement Use these guided setups to quickly activate
new workflows for your teams.
Installation Overview
2

=== PAGE 7 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Follow these steps to complete the initial installation and configuration of the Distributed Marketing
managed package in your Sales, Service, Financial Services, or Experience Cloud org and Distributed
Marketing content block package in your Marketing Cloud Engagement account. To complete
configuration in your Sales, Service, Financial Services, or Experience Cloud, you must be able to install
the managed package, assign permission sets, and complete post-installation authentication setup. To
complete configuration in Marketing Cloud Engagement, you must have access to administrative
privileges and be able to install packages.
Distributed Marketing Setup
Distributed Marketing uses Marketing Cloud Engagement journeys and Salesforce campaigns inside
the Sales, Service, Financial Services, and Experience Clouds. After installing the managed package
and configuring authentication, set up Distributed Marketing by creating an entry event data
extension, profile attributes, content, sender profile, and journey. Then customize the Campaign page
layout for Distributed Marketing.
Manage Settings
Distributed Marketing allows you to enhance your CRM with Marketing Cloud Engagement content to
send relevant, on-brand content at every touchpoint. With administrator access, typically granted to
marketers, connect a Marketing Cloud Engagement journey to a campaign, enable Quick Send, and
customize Distributed Marketing to fit your needs.
Distributed Marketing Content
Distributed Marketing allows you to extend powerful and dynamic content to distributed teams. You
can also use it to allow those teams to interact with that content safely and efficiently.
Enhance Distributed Marketing
Enhance Distributed Marketing functionality to fit your company’s needs. To extend the message
personalization flow, create custom personalization interactions. Extend the Distributed Marketing
payload to include more data for journey decisions, content personalization, and more.
Use Distributed Marketing
Distributed Marketing provides tools, workflows, and experiences that help you better serve and
engage your entire book of business.
Requirements for Distributed Marketing
Before installing Marketing Cloud Engagement Distributed Marketing, review the required products,
licenses, and permissions to help determine if you can use Distributed Marketing in your environment.
Within Distributed Marketing, certain features require complementary Salesforce products.
Requirements are noted in the feature’s setup instructions.
Distributed Marketing requires these products:
•
Salesforce Marketing Cloud Engagement with Journey Builder enabled. The documentation refers to
this product as Marketing Cloud Engagement.
•
Salesforce Sales, Service, Experience, or Industry Clouds with access to the appropriate objects,
features, and capacities, including access to contacts, leads, accounts, campaigns, flows, and content.
The documentation refers to this product as CRM.
•
Salesforce Connect, with the ability to connect to one external data source. One license, including the
3

=== PAGE 8 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
ability to connect to one external data source, is included with Distributed Marketing. This license is
used exclusively by the Distributed Marketing application.
Note Any data submitted to the Salesforce Connect Service is cached on SFDC infrastructure
temporarily and isn’t considered Customer Data as defined in the Agreement. However, (I) for
that temporary period during which data is cached on the Salesforce infrastructure, such cached
data is considered Customer Confidential Information, and the physical and logical protections
for such data is the same as those protections applicable to Customer Data submitted to the
Salesforce Services, and (II) in the event such data is electronically imported to and stored in the
Salesforce Services (and to the extent such data isn’t Content or Non-SFDC Applications), such
data is Customer Data.
•
Optionally, Marketing Cloud Connect. Users need this product to view engagement metrics such as
Email Open in CRM, and to enable more advanced Journey Builder features such as Sales and Service
Cloud activities.
•
Optionally, MobileConnect. Users need this product to send SMS messages through Distributed
Marketing.
Note SMS messages can be sent to individuals who opted into receiving mobile messages.
Customers must manage opt-ins outside of the Distributed Marketing application. For example,
with email, mobile, or web opt-in templates. Consult independent legal counsel for guidance on
applicable legal and industry requirements for managing opt-in. The Mobile Messaging Product
Special Terms (PST) apply to SMS messages sent through Distributed Marketing.
•
Optionally, SSL. Customers using a private domain need SSL to use the Distributed Marketing Image
Block, which supports HTTPS images exclusively.
Distributed Marketing uses an authenticated Marketing Cloud Engagement system user to make
marketing content accessible and usable from Sales Cloud. The solution, which can expose content from
up to 200 unique Marketing Cloud Engagement business units, requires one unique user per business
unit. Also, the business unit must be the unique user’s default business unit. This user is referred to as
the Marketing Cloud Engagement system user in this documentation. We recommend that this user is a
dedicated system user, not a user shared by an employee.
Each unique Marketing Cloud Engagement system user requires these Marketing Cloud Engagement
permissions.
Content Builder: Assets View, Subscriber Preview
Content Builder: Folders View
Email: Subscribers: Subscriber Create, View, Update
Email: Subscribers: Data Extension Create, View, Update, Delete, Manage Data
Email: Content: Email Preview, View
Interaction Studio Access
Journey Builder Access, View
4

=== PAGE 9 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Note A Marketing Cloud Engagement license isn’t required for every Distributed Marketing user.
Marketing Cloud Engagement licenses are only required for Distributed Marketing Cloud Engagement
system users. Content Builder: Assets > Subscriber Preview is only for customers using SMS. When
authenticated with a Marketing Cloud Engagement business unit, Distributed Marketing uses named
credentials to manage token access throughout the solution. Authenticated calls execute in the context
of the authenticating user, which is found on the Execute As field on the named credential’s associated
Auth. Provider. The authenticating user in CRM must be an active user and have these CRM permissions:
To configure account authentication: DMAdministrator License permission set,
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace),
Manage Auth Providers, Modify All Data, and
Customize Application
To maintain an active integration: Custom Application
Distributed Marketing is available in these Salesforce products and experiences.
Salesforce Product (Cloud) What’s Supported
Marketing Cloud Engagement (required) E2.0
Sales Professional, Enterprise, Unlimited Editions
Service Professional, Enterprise, Unlimited Editions
Experience Partner Experience (member), Partner Experience
Login, Lightning External Apps Plus
Industries Financial Services: Professional, Enterprise,
Unlimited
Note
•
Distributed Marketing requires SOAP APIs. To enable Distributed Marketing support in Sales or
Service Cloud Professional Edition, purchase SOAP API separately.
•
Distributed Marketing doesn’t support users with External Identity, External Apps (Commerce
Portal/ Lightning External Apps), Experience Cloud, Authenticated Sites, and Service Cloud Portal
licenses. Your org must have at least one Partner Experience or Partner Experience login license
provisioned to install Distributed Marketing.
•
Distributed Marketing supports Marketing Cloud Engagement environments using tokenized
sending and Field Level Encryption (FLE) with some considerations and limitations.
•
Distributed Marketing supports CRM environments using SHIELD with some considerations and
limitations.
5

=== PAGE 10 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
CRM Experience Supported
Salesforce Classic (Aloha) No
Lightning Experience (LEX) Yes
Note Distributed Marketing uses custom components.
Review these scale considerations for using Distributed Marketing. Because the efficiency and scalability
of a customer’s org is mostly a function of their use cases, design decisions and implementation, scale
considerations include “your mileage may vary.” Certain workflows can have workflow-specific scale
limitations. If your org is heavily customized, testing in a Sandbox environment is recommended.
Governor Limits. Distributed Marketing is a managed package. The product is subject to governor limits.
Learn more.
Journey Builder Limitations. Distributed Marketing sends through Journey Builder, and is subject to
Journey Builder’s throughput and scale considerations. Learn more.
Users Per Org. Distributed Marketing doesn’t support more than 150,000 users with Distributed
Marketing Standard or Admin permissions in a single organization.
Concurrent Users. In an environment with little to no customizations, Distributed Marketing doesn’t
impact concurrent users. However, customers can experience concurrency issues when adding or
removing members from a campaign. Customers can also encounter issues after customizing the
platform using custom rollup summary fields and triggers, which update built-in rollup summary fields.
For example, the campaign member status field on the campaign object. After a customer customizes
the platform, we recommend that they perform their own performance testing to understand if their
customizations imposed more limits outside of the use of Distributed Marketing.
Send Volume. We recommend that customers with custom roll-up summary fields send no more than
500 messages per campaign per minute. Roll-up summary fields lock the parent campaign record and
can cause failures due to row-locking. This limit applies to all campaign send types.
Understand the total number of messages your users plan to send. If you think the number of sends
could exceed 10,000 sends per minute, or 600,000 per hour, contact the account team to ensure that
your account is provisioned for success. This volume is rarely seen. One send equates to an injection
onto the journey. The number of messages on a campaign doesn’t have an impact.
Distributed Marketing supports these Journey Builder message activities.
Message Activity Available Workflows Preview Support Collaboration Support
Email Campaign Send, Quick Yes Yes
Send
SMS Campaign Send, Quick Yes Yes
Send
6

=== PAGE 11 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Message Activity Available Workflows Preview Support Collaboration Support
Push Notification Campaign Send No No
In-app Message Campaign Send No No
LINE Message Campaign Send No No
Inbox Message Campaign Send No No
Custom Activities Campaign Send No No
Note
•
All Distributed Marketing sending occurs through Journey Builder.
•
If a message activity supports preview, users can view the activity and its message content
through the Distributed Marketing experience.
•
If a message activity supports collaboration, users can optionally interact with the message
content through the Distributed Marketing experience.
•
The SMS message activity requires MobileConnect.
Distributed Marketing supports sending to these CRM objects.
Object Records Supported
Contacts Yes
Leads Yes
Person Accounts Yes, with some workflow considerations
Custom Objects No
Distributed Marketing requires these CRM objects and features.
Objects & Features Type Notes
Contact Standard Object
Lead Standard Object
Account Standard Object
Campaign Standard Object
ContentDocument (Content) Standard Object
Flow Feature
Integration via SOAP APIs Feature
7

=== PAGE 12 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Objects & Features Type Notes
Salesforce Connect Feature The ability to connect to one external data
source is included with Distributed
Marketing.
Note While all these objects and features are required to install the solution, individual features can
be used at your discretion. Most features are enabled through Distributed Marketing Administration,
a permission set, or a combination of both. Features are available in all supported Salesforce
Products (Clouds) unless otherwise indicated.
Distributed Marketing supports these languages.
Experience Supported
CRM Experience (managed package) English, German, Spanish, Mexican Spanish,
French, Italian, Japanese, Brazilian Portuguese
Marketing Cloud Engagement Experience English, German, Spanish, French, Canadian
French, Italian, Japanese, Brazilian Portuguese,
Latin American Spanish
See Also
Distributed Marketing
Salesforce Pricing
Get Started with Distributed Marketing
You saw the demos and identified compelling use cases that enable your advisors, partners, dealers, and
others to inform, market, and sell to their customers at scale. Now, it’s time to start setting up Distributed
Marketing for Marketing Cloud Engagement Use these guided setups to quickly activate new workflows
for your teams.
Before We Begin
Distributed Marketing is a set of tools, workflows, and experiences that allow users to view, interact with,
and send best practice Marketing Cloud Engagement content from within their CRM experience. It helps
your users easily engage with their books of business individually or in segments. Before you start, you
can learn more about the product by taking the Getting Started with Distributed Marketing trail.
Tip Where you see CRM, we’re referring to any supported CRM experience such as Sales, Service,
Financial Services, or Experience Clouds. Review Distributed Marketing requirements to ensure that
you have the required objects and features within your environment. Where you see MC, we’re
referring to Marketing Cloud Engagement. To use any Distributed Marketing feature, you and your
users need the appropriate permissions, which are listed on each help topic.
8

=== PAGE 13 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Guided Setup: Install and Configure Distributed Marketing
Before rolling out Distributed Marketing, we suggest having an internal alignment meeting to review
tasks and determine a timeline and rollout strategy. This meeting typically involves stakeholders from
corporate marketing, IT, and your business users such as Sales or Partner Management. Distributed
Marketing installation is a multistep process that has you work in your Marketing Cloud Engagement
and Sales Cloud environments. Some instances require you to work with multiple individuals in your
organization who have administrative permissions in both environments. The environment you’re
working in is indicated on each task.
Guided Setup: Distributed Marketing Quick Send
Use this guide to set up Quick Send workflows in Distributed Marketing for Marketing Cloud
Engagement.
Guided Setup: Campaign Send
Use this guide to set up the Campaign Send workflow in Distributed Marketing for Marketing Cloud
Engagement.
Guided Setup: Distributed Marketing for Experience Cloud
In general, you can use the standard Distributed Marketing help and training documentation to set up,
configure, and use Distributed Marketing. However, use this guide when setting up Distributed
Marketing in Experience Builder instead of Lightning App Builder.
See Also
Installation Overview
Guided Setup: Install and Configure Distributed Marketing
Before rolling out Distributed Marketing, we suggest having an internal alignment meeting to review
tasks and determine a timeline and rollout strategy. This meeting typically involves stakeholders from
corporate marketing, IT, and your business users such as Sales or Partner Management. Distributed
Marketing installation is a multistep process that has you work in your Marketing Cloud Engagement and
Sales Cloud environments. Some instances require you to work with multiple individuals in your
organization who have administrative permissions in both environments. The environment you’re
working in is indicated on each task.
Install Distributed Marketing:
Install Distributed Marketing in your Sales Cloud and Marketing Cloud Engagement environments.
11.. Install the Distributed Marketing Managed Package (CRM).
22.. Assign administrator feature licenses to yourself (CRM).
Tip Your administrator can assign DM Administrator or DM Standard feature licenses to other
users now, or wait until Distributed Marketing is fully set up and tested.
33.. Install Distributed Marketing Content Blocks (MC).
Tip Distributed Marketing content blocks allow your business users to edit content. If editing
content doesn’t fit into your business strategy, you can skip this step.
9

=== PAGE 14 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Create a Sender Profile:
Now, create a sender profile. A sender profile specifies the From information for a send, and contains the
name and address that the message appears to be from in the subscriber’s email client. By default,
Distributed Marketing sends messages on behalf of the user who hits the Send button, the running user.
You can support more complex sending options using custom sender profiles.
Complete the Connection:
Finally, follow these steps to complete the connection. Distributed Marketing allows you to share content
from up to 200 Marketing Cloud Engagement business units, regardless of the Marketing Cloud
Engagement account, in a single Sales Cloud org. To make content in a specific business unit available,
simply add it to Distributed Marketing, and log in to create and validate the connection.
11.. Add a Business Unit to your organization (CRM).
22.. Share the Business Units (CRM).
Tip Your administrator can optionally manage access to a business unit’s content using sharing
rules.
Guided Setup: Distributed Marketing Quick Send
Use this guide to set up Quick Send workflows in Distributed Marketing for Marketing Cloud
Engagement.
What Is a Quick Send?
Quick Sends allow users to send a single, personalized email or SMS message to a part of their book of
business, including: Quick Send messages are like opening an email inbox and typing an email, or
opening your messaging app and sending a text. The difference is that Quick Send messages are more
powerful because every send has the power of Marketing Cloud Engagement’s Journey Builder behind it.
•
A single contact, lead, or person account from different contexts such as individual records,
opportunities, and Quick Send message records
•
Up to 75 individuals at a time from a list view
•
Up to 25,000 individuals at a time from the Quick Send message record
What kind of messages can you send using Quick Send? The possibilities are endless, but some
examples include:
•
Personalized e-cards for birthdays or holidays
•
Empathetic notes after a world event, like a natural disaster
•
Thank-you messages after a customer meeting
•
Instructions for a time-sensitive issue
•
Promotions or offers you want to give to one customer
•
Follow up emails on a specific topic
You can learn more about Quick Send messages here.
10

=== PAGE 15 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Tip If you haven't installed and set up Distributed Marketing, first check out Guided Setup: Install
and Set up Distributed Marketing.
A unique Marketing Cloud Engagement Journey powers every Distributed Marketing Quick Send
message and includes the same ingredients:
•
An email or SMS message activity
•
A sender profile for email messages
•
A data extension for the journey’s API entry source
Create the individual ingredients in any order you prefer, and combine them together in a journey. Then
share that journey with your users in some, or all, of the Quick Send workflows. If one workflow doesn’t
fit your business strategy, skip that task. You can use sharing rules to control what content individual
users can see and send.
Set Up a Journey for Quick Send Message
11.. Create Content for Distributed Marketing.
Content is the first ingredient. Create an email or SMS message in Journey Builder for any content you
want to give your users. You can also create emails in Content Builder directly.
When creating emails for Distributed Marketing, remember to include the necessary sections to
remain legally compliant in your region, such as the ability to unsubscribe. All messages sent through
Distributed Marketing are considered Commercial. You can use Distributed Marketing’s collaborative
content to allow users to edit content, or skip this option if editing doesn’t fit your content or business
strategy.
When creating SMS messages for Distributed Marketing, recipients must be opted into their country
code before users can send. You can use AMPscript to let users write their own SMS messages, or you
can provide pre-written messages instead.
A user with access to create and modify content in Marketing Cloud Engagement completes these
steps.
aa.. Create an email or SMS message. Optionally include Distributed Marketing content blocks or
AMPscript to enable custom SMS messages (MC).
bb.. Save the content.
22.. Create an Entry Event Data Extension.
The entry event data extension is the second ingredient. Distributed Marketing uses Marketing Cloud
Engagement data extensions to store information about the send, like who sends it and who receives
it. Create a data extension for any message you want to send with Distributed Marketing.
A user with access to Contact Builder and Journey Builder in Marketing Cloud Engagement creates a
data extension for the quick send message (MC).
11

=== PAGE 16 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
33.. Create a Journey for a Quick Send Message.
Distributed Marketing uses Journey Builder’s sending engine to send.
A user with access to Journey Builder in Marketing Cloud Engagement creates a journey for quick send
messages. We recommend creating a unique journey for each Quick Send. For a journey to be
available for Quick Send, re-entry must be allowed. A single Email or SMS message activity can be
used, but you can use multiple non-message activities and flow controls.
Set Up Quick Send Workflows
Set up one or more Quick Send workflows to let your users send a one-off message from throughout the
platform. If one of the workflows doesn’t fit into your business strategy, you can skip that task.
Tip When you add content in Distributed Marketing Administration, the content appears in all
enabled Quick Send workflows.
When setting up a workflow, think about how you want to control who can see the component. Anyone
without access receives a friendly message telling them such, but you can avoid this notification by
setting component visibility.
11.. Set up Quick Send from a Contact, Lead, or Person Account.
Add a Quick Send component to your contact, lead, or person account page layouts to let a user send
a single message from the recipient’s message. Quick Send can only be added to the account layout if
you’re using person accounts.
22.. Set up Quick Send from a List View
Enable users to send messages to up to 75 individuals at once using List Views. To set up Quick Send
to a List View, add the Send Quick Email custom buttonto the Contact, Lead, or Person Account List
View Search Layout in Lightning App Builder. Quick Send to a List View isn’t supported in Experience
Cloud.
33.. Set up Quick Send from a Case
Add the Quick Send component to a Case page layout to allow a user to send a single message to an
individual associated with the case from the case record.
44.. Set up Quick Send from an Opportunity
Add a Quick Send component to an Opportunity page layout to allow a user to send a single message
to an individual associated with the opportunity from the opportunity record.
55.. Set up Quick Send from a Quick Send Message Record
Set up Quick Send from the message record to allow users to send a single message to an individual or
bulk send to up to 25,000 individuals at once.
Share Content with Quick Send
You enabled the Quick Send workflows and created the content that makes sense for your users. Now it’s
time to share that content. Enable the journeys you want available in Distributed Marketing
Administration. Then define sharing rules to allow users to see and send specific messages.
12

=== PAGE 17 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Tip After you enable a journey for Quick Send, the message is available in any of the Quick Send
workflows you set up. If you applied sharing rules, users only see the individual Quick Send
messages shared with them. Otherwise, Quick Send messages default to public view.
11.. Add or remove the journeys from Quick Send in Distributed Marketing Administration.
22.. In Setup, create and apply sharing rules for the Quick Send Journeys object.
33.. Set up a Content Marketplace for Quick Send. Create list views of Quick Send messages. Then create
content marketplaces to help users discover content they can access.
Example You’re a financial institution offering banking, insurance, and retirement solutions. You
have about 50 assets that are categorized into:
•
Banking Quick Sends
•
Insurance Quick Sends
•
Retirement Quick Sends
These marketplace categories give administrators and other users the ability to group content in
useful ways to help with content discovery. Let’s say you set up sharing rules so bankers only see
Quick Sends that have a custom field “Category” = Banking. It’s likely that the category has dozens, if
not hundreds, of different emails, including some related to holidays, taxes, different account types,
and investment options. Giving the bankers a large content list means that they have to search
through everything to find the right content using just the Quick Send name. That's what currently
happens on the Quick Send component for the contact record. To help the bankers, marketplaces,
also called list views, can be created for each of the categories, and then shared. So, if one of the
bankers speaks with someone about investment opportunities, the banker can quickly find the
“Investment Opts Assets” custom list view and see the 7 investment-related emails rather than the
50 other non-investment-related emails.
Guided Setup: Campaign Send
Use this guide to set up the Campaign Send workflow in Distributed Marketing for Marketing Cloud
Engagement.
What Is Campaign Send?
Campaign sends allow users to add contacts, leads, or person accounts to single or multi-step journeys.
These journeys can be simple, linear drip campaigns, engagements with engagement splits, AI, and
more. Most messages can also be personalized for specific individuals or groups of people.
What kind of messages can you send using Campaign Send? The possibilities are endless, but some
examples include:
•
A welcome series to onboard a new customer
•
An event management campaign to help drive attendance and follow up after the event
•
A selling campaign to help reach the most individuals based on their channel preference and
13

=== PAGE 18 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
engagement
Your Setup Tasks
Tip If you haven’t installed and set up Distributed Marketing, first check out Guided Setup: Install
and Set up Distributed Marketing.
A unique Marketing Cloud Engagement Journey powers every Distributed Marketing Campaign Send
and includes the same ingredients:
•
A message
•
A sender profile
•
An entry event data extension
Create the individual ingredients in any order you prefer and combine them in a journey. Then share that
journey with your users using the standard Salesforce Campaign object or campaign marketplaces. If you
manage multiple brands or have different tiers of users, you can use sharing rules to control what content
users can see and send.
When thinking about your campaign creation strategy, here are a few things to keep in mind:
•
A single journey can power multiple campaigns, but a single campaign can only be powered by one
journey.
•
You can have all your users access the same campaign, or you can create a unique campaign for each
user or team. Both approaches have pros and cons that depend on how you want to use campaigns
and which of the powerful out-of-the-box tools, such as campaign influence, that you use. Your
organizational structure is also a factor. We suggest creating a unique campaign for each user and
using campaign hierarchy to relate them all together. You can decide on these options on a campaign-
by-campaign basis. Regardless, users can only use Distributed Marketing to message individuals they
have access to.
11.. Create Content for Distributed Marketing
Create an email or SMS message that you want to let your business users send. This process is the
same way you create content for any Distributed Marketing send.
aa.. Create an SMS message in Mobile Connect or an email in Content Builder with Distributed
Marketing content blocks (MC).
bb.. Save the content.
Distributed Marketing emails are like Marketing Cloud Engagement content for CAN-SPAM (or
equivalent) requirements.
22.. Create an Entry Event Data Extension
The entry event data extension is the second step. Distributed Marketing uses Marketing Cloud
Engagement data extensions to store information about the send, such as who sends it and who is
receives it. Complete this step for any message you want to send with Distributed Marketing.
14

=== PAGE 19 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Create a data extension for the Quick Send message (MC).
33.. Create the Journey for the Campaign Send
Distributed Marketing uses Journey Builder’s sending engine. For more information about the steps in
this section, see Create a Marketing Cloud Engagement Journey.
A user with access to Journey Builder in Marketing Cloud Engagement completes these steps.
aa.. Create a journey for this Quick Send.
bb.. Add an API Entry Source activity, and configure with the new data extension.
cc.. Drag on a Send Email activity, then add and configure the content created for this Quick Send using
the Distributed Marketing sender profile.
dd.. Configure Contact Entry
ee.. Save and Activate your journey.
Guided Setup: Distributed Marketing for Experience Cloud
In general, you can use the standard Distributed Marketing help and training documentation to set up,
configure, and use Distributed Marketing. However, use this guide when setting up Distributed Marketing
in Experience Builder instead of Lightning App Builder.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create, customize, or publish a digital Create and Set Up Experiences AND View Setup
experience: and Configuration
To access the Experience Builder, in Sales or Service Cloud, navigate to Setup. Use Quick Find to navigate
to All Communities. Click Builder for the site that you’re editing.
11.. Add Campaign Messages Component
Customize your Campaigns page layout for Distributed Marketing to include this custom Campaign
Messages component. This component provides access to review Marketing Cloud Engagement
messages within the connected journey, preview content, review pending campaign members for
approval, and more. Think of the Campaign Messages component as a Distributed Marketing
campaign’s “home base.”
22.. Add Pending Approvals Page
Add a Pending Approvals page to continue setting up Distributed Marketing in your Experience Cloud.
Through this page, you can review contacts, leads, and others to approve or reject them for receiving
campaign messages.
33.. Add Settings Page
Add a Distributed Marketing Settings page to continue setting up Distributed Marketing in your
Experience Cloud. Through this page, you can select the default personalization and create options for
personalizing messages, such as selecting how the message recipient is greeted.
15

=== PAGE 20 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
44.. Expose User Settings
Add a Settings navigation menu item to continue setting up Distributed Marketing in your Experience
Cloud. This navigation menu item provides quick access to the Distributed Marketing Settings page.
55.. Add Quick Send Components
To help your business users send a single email to a part of their book of business, add one or more of
the Distributed Marketing Quick Send components to their experience.
See Also
Manage Partner Relationships with Experience Cloud Sites
Add Campaign Messages Component
Customize your Campaigns page layout for Distributed Marketing to include this custom Campaign
Messages component. This component provides access to review Marketing Cloud Engagement
messages within the connected journey, preview content, review pending campaign members for
approval, and more. Think of the Campaign Messages component as a Distributed Marketing campaign’s
“home base.”
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create, customize, or publish an experience: Create and Set Up Experiences AND View Setup
and Configuration
11.. Access the Experience Builder. In Sales or Service Cloud, navigate to Setup. Use Quick Find to navigate
to All Experiences. Click Builder for the Experience that you’re editing.
22.. Click Home.
33.. Click + New Page.
44.. Click Object Pages.
55.. Click Campaign for the object.
66.. Click Create.
77.. To customize components, click .
88.. To add the Distributed Marketing component to the Campaign page, drag the custom component
MCDM Campaign Messages onto the page.
Add Pending Approvals Page
Add a Pending Approvals page to continue setting up Distributed Marketing in your Experience Cloud.
Through this page, you can review contacts, leads, and others to approve or reject them for receiving
campaign messages.
16

=== PAGE 21 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create, customize, or publish an experience: Create and Set Up Experiences AND View Setup
and Configuration
11.. In Experience Builder, click Home.
22.. Under Pages, click + New Page.
33.. Click Object Pages.
44.. Click Linked Journey.
55.. Click Create.
66.. Remove any existing components from the new page.
77.. To customize components, click .
88.. Drag the custom component MCDM Pending Submissions onto the page.
Add Settings Page
Add a Distributed Marketing Settings page to continue setting up Distributed Marketing in your
Experience Cloud. Through this page, you can select the default personalization and create options for
personalizing messages, such as selecting how the message recipient is greeted.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create, customize, or publish an experience: Create and Set Up Experiences AND View Setup
and Configuration
11.. In Experience Builder, click Home.
22.. Under Pages, click + New Page.
33.. Click Standard Page.
44.. Select a layout.
Tip The one full-width column layout is recommended.
55.. Click Next.
66.. Enter a helpful name, such as Distributed Marketing Settings.
77.. Modify the URL as desired.
88.. Click Create.
99.. To customize components, click .
1100.. Drag the custom component MCDM User Settings onto the page.
1111.. Select Publish, and publish these changes to your Experience Cloud.
Expose User Settings
Add a Settings navigation menu item to continue setting up Distributed Marketing in your Experience
17

=== PAGE 22 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Cloud. This navigation menu item provides quick access to the Distributed Marketing Settings page.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create, customize, or publish an experience: Create and Set Up Experiences AND View Setup
and Configuration
11.. In Experience Builder, click Home.
22.. Under Pages, click Home.
33.. To customize the navigation, click the navigation bar.
44.. Click Navigation Menu.
55.. Click + Add Menu Item.
66.. Enter a name, such as Settings.
77.. Select a type.
88.. Select the Distributed Marketing settings page you created.
99.. To add this navigation menu item, click Publish.
Add Quick Send Components
To help your business users send a single email to a part of their book of business, add one or more of
the Distributed Marketing Quick Send components to their experience.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create, customize, or publish an experience: Create and Set Up Experiences AND View Setup
and Configuration
11.. In Experience Builder, click Home.
22.. Click + New Page.
33.. Click Object Pages.
44.. Select an object using the following table, and click Create. Then, drag on the corresponding Quick
Send component.
Quick Send Workflow Object Quick Send Component
Quick Send from Contacts,
Contact, Lead, or Account MCDM Quick Send Message
Leads, and Accounts
Quick Send from Cases Case MCDM Quick Send Message
Quick Send from Quick Send
Quick Send Message MCDM Quick Send Audience
Message Record
18

=== PAGE 23 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Note Quick Send from List Views and Quick Send from Opportunity Records aren’t supported in
Experience Cloud experiences.
See Also
Quick Send Messages
Installation Overview
Follow these steps to complete the initial installation and configuration of the Distributed Marketing
managed package in your Sales, Service, Financial Services, or Experience Cloud org and Distributed
Marketing content block package in your Marketing Cloud Engagement account. To complete
configuration in your Sales, Service, Financial Services, or Experience Cloud, you must be able to install
the managed package, assign permission sets, and complete post-installation authentication setup. To
complete configuration in Marketing Cloud Engagement, you must have access to administrative
privileges and be able to install packages.
Review the Help topics in the order specified to perform the installation.
11.. Install the Distributed Marketing Managed Package
Install the latest Marketing Cloud Engagement Distributed Marketing package version in your
Salesforce org.
22.. Assign Permissions
To grant access to Distributed Marketing, follow these steps to assign the installed permission sets.
33.. Install Content Blocks
Marketing users with custom content blocks in Content Builder can enable personalization. Register
blocks with your Marketing Cloud Engagement account, and then drag them into email content to
create areas of collaboration for business users. To use Distributed Marketing content blocks, create a
Marketing Cloud Engagement installed package for Distributed Marketing. Then, determine access
and add the custom blocks you want to use.
44.. Use Business Units with Distributed Marketing
If you use Marketing Cloud Engagement business units to manage content by categories - like brand,
line of business, or region - you can add them to Distributed Marketing to support unique groups of
business users. Then, use sharing rules and campaign marketplace to manage the content that groups
of sellers, partners, distributors, or agents can access. You can set up business unit access for both
Distributed Marketing administrators and standard users in Salesforce Setup. Business users do not
require unique Marketing Cloud Engagement logins.
Install the Distributed Marketing Managed Package
Install the latest Marketing Cloud Engagement Distributed Marketing package version in your Salesforce
org.
11.. Log out of active Marketing Cloud Engagement sessions.
22.. Log in to your Salesforce org.
19

=== PAGE 24 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
33.. Install the MCDistributedMarketing managed package.
When you’re prompted to log in, enter your administrator credentials.
44.. Select the role or user profile for the managed package using Marketing Cloud Engagement
Distributed Marketing.
To make sure that the managed package installs only for Distributed Marketing licensed users, select
Install for Admins Only or Install for Specific Profiles.
Distributed Marketing Upgrades and Maintenance
Distributed Marketing features are automatically included in the Marketing Cloud Engagement
releases and Distributed Marketing managed package updates. Content block updates are available
immediately with each Marketing Cloud Engagement release. Distributed Marketing managed
package updates are first available in Salesforce non-production environments and then in Salesforce
production environments.
Distributed Marketing Upgrades and Maintenance
Distributed Marketing features are automatically included in the Marketing Cloud Engagement releases
and Distributed Marketing managed package updates. Content block updates are available immediately
with each Marketing Cloud Engagement release. Distributed Marketing managed package updates are
first available in Salesforce non-production environments and then in Salesforce production
environments.
Updates begin at 10:00 AM ET (7:00 AM PT) on the scheduled date. Release dates and times are subject
to change. Some bug fixes and enhancements are released in micro-releases or emergency releases,
which occur at 8:00 PM ET (5:00 PM PT). Production and non-production orgs are automatically updated
during these releases.
After the Distributed Marketing managed package is pushed to Salesforce sandbox environments,
administrators can manually upgrade production environments before the scheduled push.
Before you upgrade, review the release notes.
11.. Install the MCDistributedMarketing managed package.
When you’re prompted to login, enter your administrator credentials.
22.. Select whether to install the managed package for admins only or for specific profiles.
Distributed Marketing Release Calendar
The Marketing Cloud Engagement Distributed Marketing release calendar is no longer in use.
See Also
Marketing Cloud Engagement Release Notes
Upgrading Packages
Graded Browser Support
Supported Browsers for Experience Cloud Sites
20

=== PAGE 25 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Distributed Marketing Release Calendar
The Marketing Cloud Engagement Distributed Marketing release calendar is no longer in use.
Refer to Salesforce Release Notes for the latest feature updates for Marketing Cloud Engagement
Distributed Marketing.
Assign Permissions
To grant access to Distributed Marketing, follow these steps to assign the installed permission sets.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To manage permission set assignments: Assign Permission Sets
Custom permissions and permission sets provide users access to Distributed Marketing licenses, objects,
and functionality. Distributed Marketing has different permissions sets designed to give users, or groups
of users, access to the functionality you want them to have. All Distributed Marketing permissions and
permission sets have the mdcm_15 Namespace prefix.
These Distributed Marketing custom permissions and permission sets are provided:
•
DM Administrator
•
DM Administrator License
•
DM Approver
•
DM Bulk Send
•
DM Standard
•
DM Standard License
The DMAdministrator License or DMStandard License permission sets must be assigned to use
Distributed Marketing functionality, unless otherwise indicated. You use a single license when either
permission set is assigned to a user. We recommend that you manage license access exclusively with
these permission sets. You can view the remaining licenses in your organization by navigating to Setup,
choosing Company Information, and then reviewing the Distributed Marketing row in Permission Set
Licenses.
Note Different tasks within Distributed Marketing administration can require other custom or
standard permissions. The minimum permissions required to perform any task are outlined in that
task’s help and training documentation.
Note A Distributed Marketing permission set license is assigned automatically when you assign the
DM Administrator License or the DM Standard License permission set to a user. Avoid assigning the
Distributed Marketing permission set license to users because it can cause difficulties when
managing license consumption. Instead, manage licenses through permission set assignment as
21

=== PAGE 26 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
outlined on this page.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to Setup.
22.. Use Quick Find to navigate to Permission Sets.
Tip To assign multiple permissions, instead of navigating to Permission Sets, search for the user
you want to assign permissions to. Select Edit Assignments under Permission Set Assignments.
Assign multiple permissions from Available Permission Sets to Enabled Permission Sets, and save
the changes.
33.. Select a Distributed Marketing permission set or permission set license.
44.. Click Manage Assignments.
55.. Click Add Assignments.
66.. Select users for the Distributed Marketing permission set or permission set license.
77.. Click Assign.
88.. Click Done.
99.. To assign more permission sets, repeat the steps.
Distributed Marketing Permissions
Control access to Distributed Marketing using custom permissions and permission sets.
Remove Distributed Marketing Licenses from Users
Make Distributed Marketing licenses available for others by removing the permission sets and the
permission set licenses from existing users.
Distributed Marketing Permissions
Control access to Distributed Marketing using custom permissions and permission sets.
When you install Distributed Marketing, these custom permissions and permission sets are installed. You
can use them to manage access to Distributed Marketing licenses and functionality. All Distributed
Marketing permissions and permission sets have the mcdm_15_namespace prefix.
Permission Description
Administrator Custom Permission Grants access to admin functions, such as sharing
content and managing organization defaults.
Standard user functions are included with this
permission. You can assign the Administrator
custom permissions by assigning the installed
DMAdministrator License or DMStandard License
permission sets, or by using custom permission
sets or profiles.
Standard Custom Permission Grants access to standard user functions, such as
content personalization and member approval.
You can assign the Standard custom permissions
22

=== PAGE 27 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
by assigning the installed DMAdministrator
License or DMStandard License permission sets, or
by using custom permission sets or profiles.
DMAdministrator License Custom Permission Set Grants users access to the Administrator custom
permission and consumes one Distributed
Marketing license. The DMAdministrator and DM
Administrator License permission sets are typically
assigned to marketers. DMAdministrator and DM
Administrator License permission sets grant access
to the Distributed Marketing Administration page
and administrative Distributed Marketing
functionality. Standard user functionality is
included with this permission.
DMStandard License Custom Permission Set Grants users access to the Standard custom
permission and consumes one Distributed
Marketing license. The DMStandard and
DMStandard License permission sets are typically
assigned to general Distributed Marketing users
such as advisers, partners, or dealers. DMStandard
and DMStandard License permission sets grant
access to the Distributed Marketing Settings page
and general Distributed Marketing functionality.
DMAdministrator Custom Permission Set Provides access to required Distributed Marketing
objects and Visualforce pages. If you create your
own custom permission sets or profiles, include
the appropriate Distributed Marketing objects and
pages.
DMStandard Custom Permission Set Provides access to required Distributed Marketing
objects and Visualforce pages. If you create your
own custom permission sets or profiles, include
the appropriate Distributed Marketing objects and
pages.
DMApprover Custom Permission Set Lets users preview Distributed Marketing content,
including business-user personalization, when
reviewing content as part of a Distributed
Marketing manual approval process. It doesn’t
grant access to personalize or send content
through Distributed Marketing.
DM Activity Log View All Provides View All Access to all users' Distributed
Marketing Activity Logs ignoring sharing rules.
DM Auto Send Provides access to Distributed Marketing
23

=== PAGE 28 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
AutoSend functionality.
DM Bulk Send Custom Permission Set Provides access to Distributed Marketing bulk
send functionality.
DM Segmented Send Provides access to Distributed Marketing
segmented send functionality after the Allow
permission set to control Segmented Send Flow
is enabled.
Remove Distributed Marketing Licenses from Users
Make Distributed Marketing licenses available for others by removing the permission sets and the
permission set licenses from existing users.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To remove permission sets: Assign Permission Sets
When assigning licenses to users, you must only assign permission sets. Permission set licenses are
added automatically. However, to make the licenses available to reassign, you must remove both the
permission set and the permission set license.
11.. From Setup, enter Users in the Quick Find box, then select Users.
22.. Select a user.
33.. In the Permission Set Assignments related list, click Edit Assignments.
44.. Remove the DMAdministrator License or the DMStandard License permission set.
55.. Save your changes.
66.. In the Permission Set License Assignments related list, click Edit Assignments.
77.. Deselect the Distributed Marketing permission set licenses.
88.. Save your changes.
Install Content Blocks
Marketing users with custom content blocks in Content Builder can enable personalization. Register
blocks with your Marketing Cloud Engagement account, and then drag them into email content to create
areas of collaboration for business users. To use Distributed Marketing content blocks, create a Marketing
Cloud Engagement installed package for Distributed Marketing. Then, determine access and add the
custom blocks you want to use.
24

=== PAGE 29 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create and install packages: You must have the Installed Package | Administer
permission. This permission is automatically
applied to the Administrator and Marketing Cloud
Engagement Administrator system-defined roles.
Review these topics, in the order specified, to perform the installation.
Add a Distributed Marketing Content Block Package
Follow these steps to create a Distributed Marketing Content Block package in Marketing Cloud
Engagement. This package is where you can add the Distributed Marketing content blocks you want to
use.
Set Content Block Permissions
You can manage who can access Distributed Marketing for Marketing Cloud Engagement content
blocks.
Add a Distributed Marketing Content Block Package
Follow these steps to create a Distributed Marketing Content Block package in Marketing Cloud
Engagement. This package is where you can add the Distributed Marketing content blocks you want to
use.
11.. In Marketing Cloud Engagement, navigate to Setup.
22.. Select Apps under Platform Tools.
33.. Select Installed Packages.
44.. Select New.
55.. Name the package, such as Distributed Marketing.
66.. Add a description, such as Custom Content Blocks for Distributed Marketing.
77.. Save your work.
88.. Add these Distributed Marketing content blocks to your package:
aa.. Distributed Marketing Image Block
bb.. Distributed Marketing Text Block
cc.. Distributed Marketing Rich Text Block
dd.. Distributed Marketing Multivariate Block
ee.. Distributed Marketing Attachment Block
See Also
Enable Email Personalization with Distributed Marketing Content Blocks
Set Content Block Permissions
You can manage who can access Distributed Marketing for Marketing Cloud Engagement content blocks.
25

=== PAGE 30 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
11.. In Marketing Cloud Engagement, navigate to Setup.
22.. Select Apps under Platform Tools.
33.. Select Installed Packages.
44.. Select your Distributed Marketing package. This package is the one you named in the previous section.
55.. Select Access.
66.. Select the business units that can access the DM installed package, or select License All Users to
provide global access.
Use Business Units with Distributed Marketing
If you use Marketing Cloud Engagement business units to manage content by categories - like brand, line
of business, or region - you can add them to Distributed Marketing to support unique groups of business
users. Then, use sharing rules and campaign marketplace to manage the content that groups of sellers,
partners, distributors, or agents can access. You can set up business unit access for both Distributed
Marketing administrators and standard users in Salesforce Setup. Business users do not require unique
Marketing Cloud Engagement logins.
Once configured, Distributed Marketing respects defined visibility for campaign sends and Quick Send. If
a user is granted access to a campaign using a journey that exists in a business unit that the user doesn’t
have access to, the user can’t view or send content from that campaign. Similarly, users can’t see Quick
Send messages from business units they do not have access to.
Add Business Units to Your Org
After installing the Distributed Marketing managed package, you can add up to 200 business units to
your account. You can choose which users to share the business units with to control access to
content. Distributed Marketing uses named principal authentication with the OAuth 2.0 protocol.
Share Business Units
Use sharing rules to manage business unit access per user, or allow all Marketing Cloud Engagement
distributed marketing business users to access content from any added business unit.
Use Business Units with Content Marketplace
Create content marketplaces that display Campaigns or Quick Send messages connected to journeys
from a specific business unit by including its name in the marketplace’s filter criteria.
Remove Business Units
Want to clean up your business units? You can remove a business unit as long as none of its journeys
are enabled as a Quick Send or in use by a campaign.
Refresh Authentication
Authenticated tokens are used to manage access to individual Marketing Cloud Engagement business
units. Tokens are periodically refreshed to ensure a secure connection. If a token fails to refresh, you
can manually reconnect the business unit.
See Also
Set Up Campaign Marketplace
26

=== PAGE 31 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Add Business Units to Your Org
After installing the Distributed Marketing managed package, you can add up to 200 business units to
your account. You can choose which users to share the business units with to control access to content.
Distributed Marketing uses named principal authentication with the OAuth 2.0 protocol.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure account authentication: DMAdministrator License permission set,
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace),
Manage Auth Providers, Modify All Data, and
Customize Application
To maintain an active integration: Custom Application
Important Authenticated calls execute in the context of the user who adds a business unit to
Distributed Marketing. So any requests for new authenticated tokens run in the context of this user
on behalf of all Distributed Marketing users. The authenticating user for each business unit is logged
in the Execute As field on the named credential’s associated Auth. Provider. This user must have the
permissions outlined to maintain an active integration and must be an active user for the duration
of Distributed Marketing being used. You can change this user for a specific business unit by editing
the business unit’s associated Auth. Provider.
A dedicated Marketing Cloud Engagement user is recommended for system authentication, is required
per authenticated business unit, and needs these Marketing Cloud Engagement permissions:
Content Builder: Assets View, Subscriber Preview
Content Builder: Folders View
Email: Subscribers: Subscriber Create, View, Update
Email: Subscribers: Data Extension Create, View, Update, Delete, Manage Data
Email: Content: Email Preview, View
Interaction Studio Access
Journey Builder Access, View
Note
•
Distributed Marketing uses custom components.
•
If you’re using Financial Services Cloud, access the Distributed Marketing Business Unit Setup
page directly. Navigate to Visualforce Pages in Setup, select PostInstallPage, and click Preview.
27

=== PAGE 32 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Then continue with step 5.
•
Deselect Enforce login IP Ranges on every request for Session Settings. You can enable it again
after account authentication.
•
Content Builder: Assets > Subscriber Preview is only needed for customers using SMS.
11.. Log out of all Marketing Cloud Engagement sessions.
Important Salesforce automatically authenticates against logged-in Marketing Cloud
Engagement sessions. If you don’t log out of active sessions, Salesforce can connect to the
incorrect Marketing Cloud Engagement account.
22.. In Salesforce, from the App Launcher, find, and open Distributed Marketing Administration.
33.. In Business Units, select Add Business Unit.
Note The system redirects you from Distributed Marketing Administration to the Distributed
Marketing Business Unit Setup page.
44.. Follow the prompts on the Distributed Marketing Business Unit Setup page to configure your account.
55.. To get the latest authentication status for connected business units, navigate to Distributed Marketing
Administration, and click the Update Connection Information button.
Tip To change the display name for the business unit, hover over the display name, and select the
pencil.
Note Don’t forget to re-enable Enforce Login IP Ranges on every request.
Upgrade to Tenant-Specific Endpoints Authentication
To enhance the performance of the Marketing Cloud Engagement platform, tenant-specific
subdomains are assigned automatically to all customers. This automatic assignment improves API
performance, creates a faster experience, and is required for some Marketing Cloud Engagement data
centers. You can self-update any connected business units not already using Tenant-Specific Endpoints
(TSE) authentication without disrupting any existing connections. All new connections automatically
use TSE authentication.
Upgrade to Tenant-Specific Endpoints Authentication
To enhance the performance of the Marketing Cloud Engagement platform, tenant-specific subdomains
are assigned automatically to all customers. This automatic assignment improves API performance,
creates a faster experience, and is required for some Marketing Cloud Engagement data centers. You can
self-update any connected business units not already using Tenant-Specific Endpoints (TSE)
authentication without disrupting any existing connections. All new connections automatically use TSE
authentication.
28

=== PAGE 33 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To enable authentication for Tenant-Specific DMAdministrator license
Subdomains:
These instructions apply only to business units added before January 2020.
11.. Log out of any active Marketing Cloud Engagement sessions.
22.. In Salesforce, navigate to AppLauncher.
33.. Select Distributed Marketing Administration.
44.. In the Administration section, navigate to the Critical Updates section. Any authenticated business
units using non-TSE authentication appear in the Business Units Ready to Prepare table. For example,
Business_unit.
Tip If you don’t see anything here, all of your business units are authenticated using the
appropriate authentication method.
55.. In the Business Units Ready to Prepare table, determine the business unit you want to update, and
select the Prepare Business Unit button. The business unit is removed from the table.
66.. In the Administration section, navigate to Business Units. When the business unit is ready, it appears in
the Business Units component under Administration > Business Units appended with _tse_migration.
For example, Business_unit_tse_migration.
77.. In the Business Units component, click Complete Log In on the new business unit. Log in using your
unique Marketing Cloud Engagement system user for Distributed Marketing.
88.. Navigate back to the Business Units section.
99.. Click the Update Connection Information button, and confirm the connection for the new business
unit. For example, Business_unit_tse_migration.
Note Now, your new business unit is authenticated. However, all of your existing campaigns and
quick send messages are accessed using the business unit that uses non-TSE authentication.
Update your existing campaigns and quick send messages to use the newly authenticated
business unit next.
1100.. In the Administration section, navigate to Critical Updates. Any business units that were authenticated
using the TSE authentication created with this migration flow appear. For example,
Business_unit_tse_migration.
1111.. In the Business Units Ready to Upgrade table, determine the business unit to upgrade, and select the
Upgrade Business Unit button. The business unit is removed from the table and the system upgrades
all connected Campaigns and Quick Send messages to use TSE authentication. When the migration is
complete, the business unit appears in the Business Units component in the Business Units section in
Administration. The business unit appears without the tse_migration suffix, for example,
Business_unit. The business unit authenticated using non-TSE authentication is appended with
_deprecated. For example, Business_unit_deprecated.
1122.. Delete the business unit authenticated with legacy authentication.
See Also
IP Addresses for Inclusion on Allowlists in Marketing Cloud Engagement
29

=== PAGE 34 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Your Subdomain and Your Tenant's Endpoints
Share Business Units
Use sharing rules to manage business unit access per user, or allow all Marketing Cloud Engagement
distributed marketing business users to access content from any added business unit.
To set business unit access using any sharing model other than public read/write:
Note Make the Distributed Marketing Business Units object public read/write to allow all distributed
marketing users to access any journeys from any business unit.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to Setup.
22.. Under Security, select Sharing Settings.
33.. Under Organization-Wide Defaults, select Edit.
44.. For Marketing Cloud Engagement Business Unit, change Default Internal Access to Private.
55.. Select Save.
66.. Determine and implement a sharing model using Sharing Rules.
aa.. Use manual sharing to give business unit access to specific individuals or groups.
bb.. Use role hierarchy sharing to give users access to business units based on their Salesforce role.
cc.. Use criteria or owner-based sharing rules to give users access to business units based on fields on
the business unit; a user's role, group, or subordinate structure; or both.
dd.. Use Apex managed sharing rules to programmatically create sharing rules that grant access to
business units for both users and groups.
See Also
Sharing Rules
Use Business Units with Content Marketplace
Create content marketplaces that display Campaigns or Quick Send messages connected to journeys
from a specific business unit by including its name in the marketplace’s filter criteria.
11.. Add at least one Marketing Cloud Engagement business unit to your org.
22.. Create a list view for Campaigns or Quick Send messages.
33.. Under the Setup Cog, select Edit List Filters.
44.. Select Add Filter.
55.. Select Linked Business Unit.
66.. Select an operator and type in the display name of the business unit.
77.. Select Done.
See Also
Set Up Campaign Marketplace
Add Business Units to Your Org
30

=== PAGE 35 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Remove Business Units
Want to clean up your business units? You can remove a business unit as long as none of its journeys are
enabled as a Quick Send or in use by a campaign.
To remove a business unit:
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to Distributed Marketing Administration.
22.. Navigate to the Business Unit section.
33.. Under Business Units, locate the business unit you want to delete.
44.. Click the dropdown on the right side of the row, and choose Delete.
55.. When prompted, click Delete.
Note If the business unit is successfully deleted, you get a success notification. Otherwise, you get
a notification explaining why the business unit can't be deleted.
Note You can create reports that show which campaigns or Quick Send messages are connected to
business units. Create a report on the Campaign or Quick Send Message object, and define a filter
where field Linked Business Unit isn't equal to NULL. Then add other fields like Message Name or
Campaign Name to help provide context. To enable reporting on the Quick Send Message object,
edit the object in Object Manager, and then enable Allow Reports.
Refresh Authentication
Authenticated tokens are used to manage access to individual Marketing Cloud Engagement business
units. Tokens are periodically refreshed to ensure a secure connection. If a token fails to refresh, you can
manually reconnect the business unit.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To refresh authentication: DMAdministrator License permission set,
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace),
Manage Auth Providers, Modify All Data, and
Customize Application
Tokens don’t typically fail to refresh with normal use, but they can fail if an authenticated call isn’t made
for 30 days or more. Authenticated calls are made during any action in Distributed Marketing that pulls
back information from the Marketing Cloud Engagement business unit. For example, selecting a Quick
Send message to send. If a business unit becomes disconnected, you see an error on screen indicating
that there’s a problem with your Marketing Cloud Engagement authentication.
To reconnect the business unit:
11.. Log out of all Marketing Cloud Engagement sessions.
31

=== PAGE 36 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
22.. In Salesforce, from the App Launcher, find and open Distributed Marketing Administration.
33.. In the Business Units section, select Update Connection Information. The system checks the status of
all added business units. If a business unit isn’t authenticated, the system displays Complete Log In in
the Connection Status column.
Note This update reports the status of the business unit connections and doesn’t change the
business units connections.
44.. Select Complete Log In. The system opens the associated named credential record.
55.. Select Edit.
66.. Ensure that Start Authentication Flow on Save is enabled.
77.. Save your work. The system prompts you to log into Marketing Cloud Engagement.
88.. Log into Marketing Cloud Engagement using your unique system user.
99.. To verify authentication status, navigate to Distributed Marketing Administration, and click Update
Connection information.
Distributed Marketing Setup
Distributed Marketing uses Marketing Cloud Engagement journeys and Salesforce campaigns inside the
Sales, Service, Financial Services, and Experience Clouds. After installing the managed package and
configuring authentication, set up Distributed Marketing by creating an entry event data extension,
profile attributes, content, sender profile, and journey. Then customize the Campaign page layout for
Distributed Marketing.
11.. Set Up Email Sends
Users can send pre-approved or customized email messages through Distributed Marketing. Email
messages are created using Content Builder and sent through Journey Builder using the Email activity.
22.. Set Up SMS Sends
Users can send preapproved or fully custom SMS messages through Marketing Cloud Engagement
Distributed Marketing. SMS messages are sent through Journey Builder using the Mobile Connect SMS
activity. The Mobile Messaging Product Special Terms (PST) apply to SMS messages sent through
Distributed Marketing.
33.. Set Up Journeys for Distributed Marketing
All messages in Distributed Marketing are sent using Marketing Cloud Engagement’s Journey Builder.
Create single-message journeys to provide business users individual assets such as birthday emails,
knowledge articles, or world event updates. Or create multi-message journeys to empower users with
more involved engagements such as welcome series, drip campaigns, or event outreach campaigns.
You create a unique journey for each asset or multi-step engagement, then share the journey with
business users using Distributed Marketing’s Campaign or Quick Send Workflows.
44.. Set Up Content Marketplaces
Content Marketplaces provide structure and guidance to help business users quickly and visually
navigate the assets available for them to use. Create multiple marketplaces to showcase collections of
assets grouped how your users think, such as Recommended, High ROI, and more. List views of
Campaign or Quick Send message records power marketplaces, so setup and management is a
breeze.
55.. Campaign Messages
32

=== PAGE 37 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Campaign messages let your business users send single or multi-touch engagements to Contacts,
Leads, and Person Accounts at scale from the Salesforce Campaign object.
66.. Quick Send Messages
Quick Send messages enable your business users to rapidly send a single, personalized Marketing
Cloud Engagement email or SMS message to contacts, leads, and person accounts from throughout
the Salesforce platform.
77.. Use Distributed Marketing to Organize Content with Topics
Assign one or more topics to each Quick Send to create content lists that you can easily search and
manage.
88.. Use Distributed Marketing with Tokenized Sending
Keep these considerations in mind when you use Distributed Marketing with Marketing Cloud
Engagement accounts that use tokenized sending.
99.. Use Distributed Marketing with Field Level Encryption
Keep these considerations and limitations in mind when you use Distributed Marketing with Marketing
Cloud Engagement accounts that use Field Level Encryption.
Set Up Email Sends
Users can send pre-approved or customized email messages through Distributed Marketing. Email
messages are created using Content Builder and sent through Journey Builder using the Email activity.
Considerations:
•
By default, messages are sent to the standard CRM email field: Email. You can modify the field using
custom development.
•
By default, messages can be sent from the running user or the record owner. You can modify the send
from information in Distributed Marketing Administration or custom development.
•
Message personalization is enabled through Distributed Marketing Content Blocks.
To enable Emails Sends in Distributed Marketing, follow these steps:
11.. Create a journey using the Email message activity.
22.. Enable the journey in a Campaign Send or Quick Send workflow.
Create a Distributed Marketing Sender Profile
Create a sender profile in Marketing Cloud Engagement to control who emails are sent from. By
default, Distributed Marketing messages are sent on behalf of the running, or logged in, user. To allow
people to send on behalf of other team members, use custom Distributed Marketing personalization
interactions and update this sender profile to reference that data.
Create Profile Attribute Mappings
When you use Distributed Marketing content blocks, users can automatically customize emails and
preview those modifications within their editing experience. If you also use the additional data
included in Distributed Marketing sends for email personalization, you must include that data as a
profile attribute to preview content. For example, add ‘greeting’ as a profile attribute to allow your
users to modify how they address email recipients, and preview those modifications.
33

=== PAGE 38 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Manage Replies to Distributed Marketing Emails
Most messages sent through Distributed Marketing don’t warrant a reply from the recipient or have
specific calls to action embedded in the message. But sometimes recipients reply to messages sent
through Distributed Marketing. Review the following information to understand how Distributed
Marketing works with reply mail management and Sender Authentication Packages (SAP).
See Also
Campaign Messages
Quick Send Messages
Enable Email Personalization with Distributed Marketing Content Blocks
Enhance Distributed Marketing
Manage Settings
Create a Distributed Marketing Sender Profile
Create a sender profile in Marketing Cloud Engagement to control who emails are sent from. By default,
Distributed Marketing messages are sent on behalf of the running, or logged in, user. To allow people to
send on behalf of other team members, use custom Distributed Marketing personalization interactions
and update this sender profile to reference that data.
Note Marketing Cloud Engagement requires that all email addresses used as the From Email
Address for sends are verified. The From Email Address is populated with the email address initiating
the send in Distributed Marketing by default.
11.. In Email Studio, navigate to Email.
22.. Click Admin.
33.. Under Send Management, click Sender Profiles.
44.. Create a sender profile.
55.. Under Sender Information, select Use the specified information: and enter the following.
aa.. From Name: %%sendFromName%%
bb.. From Email: %%sendFromEmail%%
See Also
Add Custom Personalization Interactions
Sender Profile
Domain Verification for Marketing Cloud Engagement Email
Create Profile Attribute Mappings
When you use Distributed Marketing content blocks, users can automatically customize emails and
preview those modifications within their editing experience. If you also use the additional data included
in Distributed Marketing sends for email personalization, you must include that data as a profile attribute
to preview content. For example, add ‘greeting’ as a profile attribute to allow your users to modify how
they address email recipients, and preview those modifications.
34

=== PAGE 39 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Note You can only add attributes in the parent business unit. If you use legacy personalization,
create profile attributes for each of the personalization options.
To create a Profile Map:
11.. In Email Studio, navigate to Email.
22.. In Subscribers, click Profile Management.
33.. Create an attribute for the field used in email message content.
Tip If you don’t provide a value for the field, we display Lorem Ipsum. The value can be modified
in the Data tab of the field’s profile attribute. You can modify the number of characters displayed,
or provide a default value.
Note Be sure to add all the profile attribute fields that you have. Use the same field names that are
in the entry source data extension. Field names are case-sensitive. For example, if you have a data
extension field called FirstName, add a profile attribute field called FirstName.
See Also
Create Entry Event Data Extension
Manage Replies to Distributed Marketing Emails
Most messages sent through Distributed Marketing don’t warrant a reply from the recipient or have
specific calls to action embedded in the message. But sometimes recipients reply to messages sent
through Distributed Marketing. Review the following information to understand how Distributed
Marketing works with reply mail management and Sender Authentication Packages (SAP).
Reply Mail Management
Reply Mail Management (RMM) helps reduce noise from automated customer responses like suppressed
out-of-office replies. RMM helps streamline repeated responses like processing in-line unsubscribe
requests.
Tip Dynamic Reply-To allows you to dynamically control the Reply Name for sends, but the From
email address is still the RMM domain and the configuration applies to the entire business unit. This
isn't recommended if you’re using the same Business Unit for both Distributed Marketing and non-
Distributed Marketing sends.
Often, these features aren’t as beneficial for Distributed Marketing sends because business users prefer
to process these types of responses themselves. Also, business users typically prefer that the From and
Reply Names look like they come from them.
Instead of using RMM with Distributed Marketing, consider bypassing RMM for these sends to make a
more logical flow for the sender and receiver.
For customers using a Sender Authentication Package (SAP), you must use a Private Domain for your
35

=== PAGE 40 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
standard corporate domain.
Important Domain Verification is now enforced on all accounts. This enforcement means that all
domains, including domains used for Distributed Marketing sends, must be verified to send.
Use the suggested Distributed Marketing sender profile configuration and disable RMM for this profile to
make emails look like they’re sent from the actual user. For example, user@cumulusfinancial.com.
Note This action allows recipients to reply back to the sender directly if necessary, like a traditional
email. However, subsequent responses aren't tracked in Salesforce by Distributed Marketing.
Example Cumulus Financial set up an RMM domain: NoReply@e.cumulusfinancial.com. Cumulus
wants sends from their financial advisors to come from user@cumulusfinancial.com. This email
address isn't the RMM domain. With RMM enabled, Cumulus can define a dynamic reply to, which
would define the Reply To as user@cumulusfinancial.com, but the Send From name would still be
from NoReply@e.cumulusfinancial.com. By disabling RMM and using the suggested Distributed
Marketing sender profile, the send from and reply to names would be user@cumulusfinancial.com.
Set Up SMS Sends
Users can send preapproved or fully custom SMS messages through Marketing Cloud Engagement
Distributed Marketing. SMS messages are sent through Journey Builder using the Mobile Connect SMS
activity. The Mobile Messaging Product Special Terms (PST) apply to SMS messages sent through
Distributed Marketing.
Considerations:
•
By default, messages are sent to the standard CRM phone field: Phone. You can modify this field when
configuring Quick Send or Campaign workflows.
Note If you use Experience Cloud to set up SMS sends for Campaigns, the Phone field must be
configured on the MCDM Pending Submissions component. For setup not in Experience Cloud,
set up the Phone field on the MCDM Campaign Messages component.
•
MobileConnect.manages opt-ins. Recipients must be opted in before receiving SMS messages through
Distributed Marketing.
•
Phone numbers must include the country code.
•
Engagement tracking for SMS messages sent isn’t available in CRM by Distributed Marketing or
Marketing Cloud Connect today. But a log of SMS messages sent is available when sent using the
Quick Send from Opportunity and Quick Send from Case workflows.
•
Distributed Marketing doesn’t surface blockout windows to users. If a user attempts a sending during a
blockout window, the message isn’t sent.
•
Distributed Marketing is optimized for GSM characters only. Distributed Marketing doesn’t
programmatically prevent users from entering or sending non-GSM characters. But the maximum
character count doesn’t automatically update to reflect new character limits per message. If a user
includes non-GSM characters, up to three messages can be sent.
36

=== PAGE 41 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
•
Custom SMS messages are enabled using AMPscript.
To enable SMS Sends in Distributed Marketing, follow these steps:
11.. Create a journey using the SMS message activity. In Journey Delivery Options, select Send only to
contacts who are subscribed currently or, for Campaigns, you can select Subscribe all contacts. The
Subscribe all contacts isn’t currently supported for Quick Sends.
22.. Ensure that the journey’s event data extension includes the following fields:
Column Name Data Type Length Primary Key Required Notes
smsValue Text 160 No No Include it to
support
custom SMS
messages. Set
it up as a
profile
attribute if it’s
referenced in
AMPscript.
mobilePhone Phone 50 No No Set it up as a
profile
attribute if it’s
referenced in
AMPscript.
33.. Enable the journey in a Campaign Send or Quick Send workflow.
See Also
Campaign Messages
Quick Send Messages
Enable Custom SMS Messages
Set Up Journeys for Distributed Marketing
All messages in Distributed Marketing are sent using Marketing Cloud Engagement’s Journey Builder.
Create single-message journeys to provide business users individual assets such as birthday emails,
knowledge articles, or world event updates. Or create multi-message journeys to empower users with
more involved engagements such as welcome series, drip campaigns, or event outreach campaigns. You
create a unique journey for each asset or multi-step engagement, then share the journey with business
users using Distributed Marketing’s Campaign or Quick Send Workflows.
Important When creating a child campaign from a parent campaign, the child inherits the
connected journey of the parent. The parent's connected journey can’t be modified, even if the
child is reconnected to another parent.
37

=== PAGE 42 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
11.. In Marketing Cloud Engagement, navigate to Journey Builder.
22.. Create a journey.
33.. Drag API Event entry source onto the journey canvas.
Note You can also use a data extension entry source, but the recommendation is to use an API
entry source.
44.. Configure the entry source with the unique event data extension you created for this marketing
activity.
Important
••
To avoid adding campaign members to multiple journeys at the same time, use a unique entry
source per journey.
••
A contact filter isn’t required for Distributed Marketing, but use it as needed for more audience
management.
55.. To create your journey, drag journey activities onto the canvas.
Note Distributed Marketing allows users to view and send Send Email and Send SMS activities,
and personalize Send Email activities. You can use other activity types on your journey, but users
can’t view or personalize these activities within other Salesforce clouds.
66.. Configure the activity with the content and sender profile you created for Distributed Marketing setup.
77.. Define the contact entry mode.
88.. Name the journey and add a description.
99.. Activate the journey.
Create Entry Event Data Extension
Create a standard, sendable data extension that captures information from the approved contacts that
you use for journey messaging. For example, capture the sender email address and ID.
Journeys for Campaign Sends
To create a unique journey for marketing activities when using the Distributed Marketing Campaign
Send workflow in Marketing Cloud Engagement, follow these steps.
Journeys for Quick Send Messages
To create a unique journey for marketing activities when using the Distributed Marketing Quick Send
workflow in Marketing Cloud Engagement, follow these steps
See Also
Set Up Campaign Marketplace
Allow Users to Create Campaign Hierarchies
Create Entry Event Data Extension
Create a standard, sendable data extension that captures information from the approved contacts that
you use for journey messaging. For example, capture the sender email address and ID.
11.. In Marketing Cloud Engagement, navigate to Audience Builder.
22.. Click Contact Builder.
33.. Click Data Extensions.
38

=== PAGE 43 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
44.. To create a data extension in your folder structure, click Create.
Important Ensure that the data extension is standard, sendable, and the send relationship relates
the ID to Subscribers on Subscriber Key.
Tip
••
After you create this data extension for the first time, select Create from Existing to save time
when creating journeys.
••
If you’re using tokenized sending or field level encryption, review configuration considerations.
55.. Include these fields in the data extension.
Column Placeholder Data Type Length Primary Key Required Notes
Name Text default = 50
greeting [Full Name] Text > 0 No Picklist of
fields on
contact or
lead object
id Text ≥ 18 Yes Id relates to
Subscribers
on
Subscriber
Key.
email EmailAddres 254 Yes, if
Email
s sending
address of
email
contact or
messages.
lead
Otherwise,
(standard
No
field)
Not
configurable
in profile
attributes.
sfCampaignI [Campaign Text ≥ 18 No ID of linked
d Id] campaign
sfCampaign [Campaign Text ≥ 18 No ID of
MemberId Member Id] injected
campaign
member
sfQuickSend Text ≥ 18 No ID of quick
Id send record
39

=== PAGE 44 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Column Placeholder Data Type Length Primary Key Required Notes
Name Text default = 50
sendFromN [From Text > 0 No Name of
ame Name] account
owner for
DM sender
profile
sendFromE [From Text > 0 No Email of
mail Email] account
owner for
DM sender
profile
firstName [First Name] Text > 0 No First name
of recipient
lastName [Last Name] Text > 0 No Last name
of recipient
sfUserId [Your User Text ≥ 18 Yes
ID of the
Id]
user
initiating the
send.
Usually the
running
user, but
could be
different if
the user
who
prepares a
bulk send
isn’t the user
who starts
the send.
Learn more.
journeyID Text 50 Yes ID of
journey that
associates a
journey to
its
personalizati
on data
40

=== PAGE 45 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Column Placeholder Data Type Length Primary Key Required Notes
Name Text default = 50
extension
sfOrgId Text 50 Yes ID of the
correspondi
ng
Salesforce
Org in which
the
campaign
member
resides
smsValue Text < 160 No No To support
custom SMS
messages
Learn more.
mobilePhon [Mobile Phone 50 No Yes, if mobilePhon
e Phone] sending e must be
SMS set up as a
messages. profile
Otherwise, attribute if
No it’s
referenced
in
AMPscript.
EntryObjectI Text ≥ 18 No No ID of Case
d or
Opportunity
the Quick
Send was
initiated
from.
Tip You can’t set a required field as nullable.
Note If you create a complex AMPscript to build out your email content in Content Builder, users
can get an error message when they try to switch between preview and edit modes in Distributed
Marketing. To avoid an error, account for the standard placeholders.
66.. If you enhance the Distributed Marketing payload with more data by extending the entry source data
or creating a custom personalization interaction, add the new fields to the data extension.
41

=== PAGE 46 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Journeys for Campaign Sends
To create a unique journey for marketing activities when using the Distributed Marketing Campaign Send
workflow in Marketing Cloud Engagement, follow these steps.
When you create journeys for Quick Sends, consider the following.
•
Journeys created for campaign sends can include any number of standard or custom activities.
However, Distributed Marketing only shows business users email and SMS activities.
•
A single journey can be connected to multiple CRM campaigns, but a campaign can only be
connected to a single journey at once. For example, give individual users access to their Welcome
Series campaign, but power all the campaigns with the same journey to help scale marketing’s efforts.
Use campaign hierarchy to allow child campaigns to automatically use the connect journey of the
parent account.
•
To avoid adding individuals to multiple journeys at the same time, use a unique entry source per
journey.
•
A contact filter isn’t required for Distributed Marketing, but can be used as needed.
•
Any contact entry setting can be used for Campaign Sends, but we suggest allowing re-entry always or
after exiting for most use cases.
11.. In Marketing Cloud Engagement, navigate to Journey Builder.
22.. Create a Multi-Step Journey.
33.. Drag an API Event entry source onto the journey canvas.
44.. Configure the entry source with the unique event data extension you created for this journey.
55.. Drag journey activities onto the canvas.
Tip The Activity Name is displayed to users in various places, including the Campaign Messages
component sorted alphanumerically. If you use flow control splits, consider using a naming
convention to group message options. For example, 2a. Email Follow-up and 2b. SMS Follow-up,
to help users understand that recipients receive an email or SMS message as a follow-up
message.
66.. Define the contact entry mode.
Tip To allow business users to add an individual to the journey only once, select No re-entry. To
allow business users to add an individual to the journey multiple times, select Re-entry anytime
or No re-entry after exiting. Regardless of the contact entry mode in Journey Builder, contacts
and leads can be added to a campaign only once.
77.. Name the journey and add a description.
88.. Activate the journey. The journey can now be connected to a campaign.
Campaign Inheritance and Distributed Marketing
Use campaign hierarchies to manage content distribution when multiple individuals must use the
same general marketing activity. For example, use a Welcome drip campaign instead of giving
everyone access to the same campaign record.
42

=== PAGE 47 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Campaign Inheritance and Distributed Marketing
Use campaign hierarchies to manage content distribution when multiple individuals must use the same
general marketing activity. For example, use a Welcome drip campaign instead of giving everyone access
to the same campaign record.
For most use cases, you create a parent campaign for each unique marketing activity owned and
managed by corporate marketing. You also create a unique child campaign owned and managed by
individual business users.
For example, a retail bank creates a parent campaign for Open Checking Account. This campaign is
owned and managed by a corporate marketing team. Each financial advisor receives their own child
campaign to add individuals from their book of business.
When you use campaign hierarchies and Distributed Marketing, the child campaign automatically
inherits the connected journey of the parent campaign. Consider these examples when using campaign
inheritance with Distributed Marketing and the rules for each scenario.
Example You connect a campaign to a journey and assign it as a parent to a child campaign. No
campaign members are added to the campaign yet.
•
The child campaign inherits the connected journey.
•
You can’t connect the parent campaign to a different journey.
Example A child campaign is connected to a journey through a parent campaign. No campaign
members are added to the child campaign yet. You have administrator permissions and update the
child campaign reference to a different parent campaign.
•
The child campaign remains connected to the original journey.
•
You can’t modify the parent campaign’s existing journey connection or add a journey.
Important We don’t recommend updating a child campaign to connect to a different parent
campaign. Changing the parent campaign creates a disconnect between the journeys
associated with the child and parent campaigns.
Example You connect a child campaign or a parent campaign to a journey and add campaign
members.
•
You can’t connect the parent campaign to a different journey.
•
You can’t connect the child campaign to a different journey.
Journeys for Quick Send Messages
To create a unique journey for marketing activities when using the Distributed Marketing Quick Send
workflow in Marketing Cloud Engagement, follow these steps
43

=== PAGE 48 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
When you create journeys for Quick Sends, consider the following.
•
Journeys created for quick sends can include any number of standard or custom Flow Control,
Customer Updates, Sales & Service Cloud, or Custom activities. However, each journey for quick sends
can include at most one email or SMS activity only.
•
To avoid adding individuals to multiple journeys at the same time, use a unique entry source per
journey.
•
A contact filter isn’t required for Distributed Marketing, but can be used as needed.
•
The contact entry setting must allow for Re-entry always or Re-entry after exiting. No re-entry isn’t
supported for quick send messages.
•
Journeys enabled as quick send messages are available in all quick send messages that business users
can access.
11.. In Marketing Cloud Engagement, navigate to Journey Builder.
22.. Create a Multi-Step Journey.
33.. Drag an API Event entry source onto the journey canvas.
44.. Configure the entry source with the unique event data extension you created for this journey.
55.. Drag journey activities onto the canvas.
Tip A single Email or SMS activity is required. Use non-message activities to make quick send
messages more powerful for recipients, senders, and the business. For example, add an
Engagement Split activity to a quick send journey. If a contact doesn’t open the email, use the
Task activity to suggest business users follow up with a phone call. Or they can resend the email.
66.. Define the contact entry mode.
Tip Re-entry anytime or Re-entry only after existing is required.
77.. Name the journey and add a description.
Tip The journey name appears to business users when searching for a message to send. Put
uniquely identifiable information for each message in the first 30 characters. For example, use
Birthday Template - Summer 2020 instead of Summer 2020 Birthday Template.
88.. Activate the journey. The journey can now be enabled as a Quick Send message.
Set Up Content Marketplaces
Content Marketplaces provide structure and guidance to help business users quickly and visually
navigate the assets available for them to use. Create multiple marketplaces to showcase collections of
assets grouped how your users think, such as Recommended, High ROI, and more. List views of
Campaign or Quick Send message records power marketplaces, so setup and management is a breeze.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create and save Lightning pages in the Customize Application
Lightning App Builder:
44

=== PAGE 49 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Considerations:
•
Each marketplace visualizes a single list view, sorted by created date oldest to newest. Quick Send
messages and campaigns are separate components, but they can be displayed together using
standard lightning layouts, such as Tabs.
•
Because list views power marketplaces, users can see only the records for which they have permissions
to access.
•
Each tile card shows the image associated with the Campaign or Quick Send (optional), Title, and
Description. The image is based on fields selected by the admin user.
•
Each marketplace optionally displays up to 9 card tiles at a time. Users can page through to see more.
•
Marketplaces can show an image. Images are added to individual Campaigns or Quick Send messages
using the MCDM Image Upload component.
•
You can’t select the campaignId as the Name field when you create the marketplace.
To create a content marketplace:
11.. Create a Campaign or Quick Send list view.
22.. When the list view is ready, add it to a Content Marketplace.
aa.. In Lightning App Builder, find the page you want to add the marketplace to, and click Edit. For
example, modify the Home page.
bb.. Drag the marketplace onto the page.
cc.. To configure the marketplace, choose the list view you want from the List View Name field.
dd.. Choose the fields to display in the Title and Body or use the default values, and optionally choose to
display an image.
ee.. Optionally define component visibility.
ff.. Click Save. The marketplace is now available for your business users who can access those assets.
Example Create a custom home page for your users. Drag and drop the standard Tabs component
onto the page, and create the tabs you want. For example, create a tab called New that uses a list
view that displays Quick Send messages created in the past month by adding a filter where Created
Date equals Last 30 Days.
Set Up Images for Content Marketplaces
Add images to content marketplace tiles to help business users visually identify assets. An image can
be added to individual campaign or quick send message records. If no image is added, marketplaces
with images enabled display a default image. To allow users to add images for content marketplaces,
follow these instructions.
See Also
Relative Date Filter Reference
Set Up Images for Content Marketplaces
Add images to content marketplace tiles to help business users visually identify assets. An image can be
added to individual campaign or quick send message records. If no image is added, marketplaces with
images enabled display a default image. To allow users to add images for content marketplaces, follow
45

=== PAGE 50 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
these instructions.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create and save Lightning pages in the Customize Application
Lightning App Builder:
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to Setup.
22.. In Salesforce Setup, type Lightning App Builder in the Quick Find box, and click Lightning App
Builder.
33.. Edit the Campaign or Quick Send message record page layout used for Distributed Marketing users.
44.. Drag the MCDM Image Upload component onto the page layout.
55.. Click Save.
66.. Activate the page.
77.. On a Campaign or Quick Send message record, upload an image.
Tip The image height is locked to 130 px high and scales accordingly.
If unable to view images after following these steps, ensure that images are enabled within the Content
Marketplace settings in Lightning App Builder.
Campaign Messages
Campaign messages let your business users send single or multi-touch engagements to Contacts, Leads,
and Person Accounts at scale from the Salesforce Campaign object.
There are two types of Campaign Send workflows:
•
Segmented Send: Users can personalize and send messages to smaller groups (segments) of their
entire target audience. Segments can contain up to 500 recipients.
•
Bulk Send: Users can personalize and send messages to up to 25,000 recipients at once with more
limited personalization options.
One workflow typically makes more sense than the other based on the use case and type of content the
user wants to send. However, you can use the two workflows together. For example, use the Segmented
Send workflow first to make targeted personalizations to specific individuals or groups of individuals.
Then use the Bulk Send workflow to target the rest of the audience. Recipients can't be included in a Bulk
Send and Segmented Send at the same time.
Not all features are available in both workflows, so use this information to determine which workflow is
right for your organization.
46

=== PAGE 51 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Segmented Send Bulk Send Segmented Send and Bulk
Send
You can use both workflows
This workflow offers more This workflow offers a more
together. For example, use both
control and flexibility for efficient way to get messages out
options when your audiences
audience and content to your book of business, but
consist of high-touch and
manipulation. less flexibility in audience and
standard clients and where the
content manipulation.
general content is sent to all
For example, use Segmented
clients, but your high-touch
Send to send individual or group Users can modify content for the
clients require more specific
personalization messages, entire audience. Users can also
personalization.
sometimes called profile-based review the entire audience
personalization. In this case, use before sending, but can't
data filters to segment the target personalize for individuals or
audience, and then modify groups.
messages for that segment
For example, use Bulk Send
Segmented Sends work well when the user has a target
when there are nuances to the audience of more than 1,000
type of messages certain and the content doesn't require
individuals receive. Segmented granular modifications such as
Sends also work well when the an event invitation.
user adding individuals to the
campaign isn't the same user
who sends the campaign.
For example, another team
member creates the audience
for you to review, or corporate
marketing pre-loads the
campaign with suggested
recipients based on business
logic or automation. With this
workflow, users can opt
recipients out of messaging
without removing them from the
campaign.
Scale considerations:
Segmented Send Bulk Send Segmented Send and Bulk
Send
If you’re sending more than Consider scale for Segmented
5,000 segmented messages per and Bulk Sends together when
47

=== PAGE 52 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Segmented Send Bulk Send Segmented Send and Bulk
Send
day, consider using bulk send. using both workflows in a single
We recommend using no more campaign.
than 20 personalization
attributes across all campaign
messages.
Example use cases for Segmented Sends, Bulk Sends, and using both together.
Segmented Send Use Cases Bulk Send Use Case Segmented Send and Bulk
Send Use Case
Simple Holiday Card:A Cumulus
Monthly Newsletter with VIP High-Volume Newsletter with
financial advisor wants to send a
Webinar: A Cumulus financial VIP Webinar:A Cumulus
holiday card to 2,000 clients. The
advisor wants to send the financial advisor wants to send a
advisor decides that a simple
monthly newsletter to 300 monthly newsletter to 5,000
thinking of you note is enough
clients. Later that month, clients. Later that month,
for all clients. The advisor can
Cumulus is hosting a webinar for Cumulus is hosting a webinar for
type one message for all 2,000
households with more than $1 households with more than $1
clients. Cumulus uses campaigns
million under management. million (US dollars) under
to manage this workflow to tie
management.
this activity to ROI (Campaign
Cumulus has a custom contact
Influence). If ROI isn't important,
field that categorizes clients as Cumulus has a custom contact
or if the total audience was less
standard, high-touch, or field that categorizes clients as
than 25,000, the advisor can
lighthouse clients based on standard, high, or lighthouse
also use Quick Sends to do the
assets under management clients based on AUM. Also,
same send.
(AUM). Also, Cumulus shows the Cumulus shows the AUM to
AUM to advisors. advisors.
The advisor wants to provide the The advisor wants to provide the
webinar information to 50 webinar information to 50
lighthouse clients and not the lighthouse clients and not the
other 250 clients. Rather than other 4,050 clients. The 4,050
sending two newsletters, the remaining clients can be
advisor can use the segmented targeted using the segmented
send workflow to filter 300 send workflow. However, using
clients down to the 50 the bulk send workflow would
lighthouse clients and make the be more efficient because it
webinar-specific personalization. involves clicking send one time
And then the advisor can modify versus nine times using
the newsletter for the remaining segmented sends.
250 clients.
48

=== PAGE 53 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Segmented Send Use Cases Bulk Send Use Case Segmented Send and Bulk
Send Use Case
Cross-Team Sending: The
Cumulus marketing team uses AI
to pre-populate campaigns for
advisors based on custom
business logic.
A Cumulus financial advisor
prepares to send a market
update email to 200 suggested
clients. The advisor can review
the suggested clients and
optionally opt certain recipients
out of receiving the message.
Use this table to determine which channels work with Segmented and Bulk Sends.
Channel Segmented Send Use Cases Bulk Send Use Case
Email Yes Yes
SMS Yes, limit one custom SMS per Yes, limit one custom SMS per
campaign campaign
Custom No No
Use this table to determine which features work with Segmented and Bulk Sends.
Feature Segmented Send Bulk Send
Sending: Send to Campaign
Yes, maximum 500 at once. Yes, maximum 25,000 at once.
Members
You can limit the total number of You can limit the total number of
messages sent using the messages sent using the
Message Cap defined in Message Cap defined in
Distributed Marketing Distributed Marketing
Administration. Administration.
Yes Yes
Sending: Send from {X}
Distributed Marketing supports
sending from record owner and
running user.
49

=== PAGE 54 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Feature Segmented Send Bulk Send
Sending: Schedule sends Yes, if manual approvals are Yes, if manual approvals are
disabled. disabled.
Scale considerations:
If you're a single user, don't If you're a single user, don't
•
Don’t schedule more than a
schedule more than 50 unique schedule more than a single Bulk
single Bulk Send for the same
Segmented Sends for the same Send for the same time. Also,
time.
time. Also, don't schedule don’t schedule Segmented and
•
Don’t schedule more than 50
Segmented and Bulk Sends for Bulk Sends for the same time.
unique Segmented Sends for
the same time.
the same time.
•
Don’t schedule Segmented
and Bulk Sends for the same
time.
Yes No
Message Personalization: Per-
individual modifications
Example: Select a single
campaign member and modify
the email.
Yes No
Message Personalization: Per-
group modifications
Example: From 100 campaign
members, select 5, and modify
the email for the selected 5.
Yes
Message Personalization: Per Yes
batch modifications
The Submission Cap defined in
Example: Select all campaign Distributed Marketing
members, and modify the email Administration can limit the
for all selected members. maximum selectable members
(batch size).
Message Personalization: Yes, through Campaign defaults. Yes, through Campaign defaults.
Default modifications
Yes, if scheduled sends are No, messages are sent regardless
Compliance & Approvals:
disabled. of approval setting.
Manual Approvals
50

=== PAGE 55 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Feature Segmented Send Bulk Send
Scale consideration: Each
message must be approved
individually. If approvals are
required, campaigns with more
than 5 messages can become
operationally unusable.
Compliance & Approvals: Yes Yes
Restricted Words
Compliance & Approvals: Yes No
Submission Cap
Compliance & Approvals: Yes Yes
Message Cap
Extend Distributed Marketing: Yes No
Custom Personalization
Interaction
Extend Distributed Marketing: Yes Yes
Extend Entry Source Data
After a Campaign Send, you can view these Campaign Send Statistics.
•
Submitted: The number of members to whom the campaign was sent
•
Rejected: In a Segmented Send, the number of members for whom the campaign wasn't sent based
on the user choosing the Reject option
•
Failed: The number of Submitted members who weren't injected into the journey for any reason
•
Waiting: The number of members for which no action’s been taken yet. In a Segmented Send, their
status is Pending
Set Up Campaign Messages
Customize your Campaigns page layout for Distributed Marketing to include the Distributed Marketing
MCDM Campaign Messages component. This component provides access to review Marketing Cloud
Engagement messages within the connected journey, preview content, send messages, and more.
Think of the Campaign Messages component as a Distributed Marketing campaign’s home base for
campaign sends.
Enable Journeys for Campaign Send
To share single or multistep journeys, connect a Salesforce campaign to a Marketing Cloud
Engagement Journey. This connection exposes marketing content to your owners, partners, and sellers
for personalization in Distributed Marketing.
Change Journey Connected to a Campaign
Before or after campaign members are added to a campaign or a child campaign is created, you can
change the journey connected to the campaign through Distributed Marketing. After saving, an
51

=== PAGE 56 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
association between a campaign and a journey is required.
Set Up Collaborative Campaigns (Auto Send)
Coordinate with your business users to plan your campaign launch at a specified date and time. With
the proper permission set, you can set up an Auto Send for a Campaign. At the selected date and
time, all campaign members not yet sent to and not part of a scheduled or bulk send are added to the
Auto Send campaign journey. Your business users can add up to 25,000 members for an Auto Send
campaign. If more than one campaign is scheduled by the same person for the same time and date,
your business users can still send to a total of 25,000 members.
See Also
Sender Profile
Guided Setup: Distributed Marketing for Experience Cloud
Set Up Campaign Messages
Customize your Campaigns page layout for Distributed Marketing to include the Distributed Marketing
MCDM Campaign Messages component. This component provides access to review Marketing Cloud
Engagement messages within the connected journey, preview content, send messages, and more. Think
of the Campaign Messages component as a Distributed Marketing campaign’s home base for campaign
sends.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create, edit, and delete page layouts: Customize Application
Note All users with the DM Standard permission set and licenses are able to perform a Segmented
Send. To allow your users to perform a Bulk Send, assign the DM Bulk Send permission set.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to Setup.
22.. Enter Lightning App Builder in Quick Find, and click Lightning App Builder.
Note Distributed Marketing installs a sample record page: ConnectedCampaign. To use that
default Distributed Marketing record page for campaigns, click View on the ConnectedCampaign
Lightning page, and begin with step 13. Otherwise, continue to the next step to create a custom
layout.
33.. Click New.
44.. Click Record Page.
55.. Click Next.
66.. Create a Label, for example Distributed_Marketing_Campaign.
77.. Select Campaign as the Object.
88.. Click Next.
99.. Click Choose Page Template or Clone Salesforce Default Page.
1100.. Click Finish.
52

=== PAGE 57 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
1111.. Drag the MCDM Campaign Messages component onto the page.
1122.. Save.
1133.. Click Activation.
1144.. Assign a default page setting.
1155.. To return to Setup, click
Enable Journeys for Campaign Send
To share single or multistep journeys, connect a Salesforce campaign to a Marketing Cloud Engagement
Journey. This connection exposes marketing content to your owners, partners, and sellers for
personalization in Distributed Marketing.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To connect campaigns: DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to the campaign to connect.
22.. Select Connect Campaign in the Campaign Messages component.
33.. Search for and select a Marketing Cloud Engagement business unit.
44.. Search for and select an active Marketing Cloud Engagement journey from the selected business unit.
Note
••
Search results are based on journey name and description.
••
You can connect journeys to campaigns before you add campaign members and before you
create child campaigns. You can’t remove journeys from campaigns after they're connected.
Tip To select a journey from a different business unit, remove the selected journey. Then, search
for and select a new business unit and the new journey.
55.. Save.
The journey is connected. Send Email and Send SMS activities on the connected journey populate the
Campaign Messages component.
See Also
Graded Browser Support
Installing AppExchange Packages
Change Journey Connected to a Campaign
Before or after campaign members are added to a campaign or a child campaign is created, you can
change the journey connected to the campaign through Distributed Marketing. After saving, an
association between a campaign and a journey is required.
53

=== PAGE 58 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To change the connected journey: DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to the campaign to reconnect.
22.. Under Settings, click Manage Journey.
Note Child campaigns inherit the connected journey from their parent campaigns. The
connected journey can’t be modified.
33.. Search for and select the Marketing Cloud Engagement journey associated with this campaign.
Tip To select a journey from a different business unit, remove the selected journey. Then, search
for and select a new business unit and a new journey.
44.. Save.
The journey is connected. Send email activities on the connected journey populate the Campaign
Messages component.
Set Up Collaborative Campaigns (Auto Send)
Coordinate with your business users to plan your campaign launch at a specified date and time. With the
proper permission set, you can set up an Auto Send for a Campaign. At the selected date and time, all
campaign members not yet sent to and not part of a scheduled or bulk send are added to the Auto Send
campaign journey. Your business users can add up to 25,000 members for an Auto Send campaign. If
more than one campaign is scheduled by the same person for the same time and date, your business
users can still send to a total of 25,000 members.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To set up a collaborative campaign: DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
or DMStandard License permission set and
Standard permission (mcdm_15 namespace), and
the DM Auto Send permission set.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to your campaign.
22.. Click the cog wheel icon, and select Auto Send.
Note You can set up one Auto Send per campaign.
33.. Choose the send date and time for the campaign to launch.
44.. Submit your changes.
54

=== PAGE 59 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Example Your insurance company has a centralized marketing team and individual smaller
marketers or teams at dealerships who sell their insurance. You want the centralized marketing team
to configure the automatic sending date and time when a Distributed Marketing Campaign is
released to the insurance reps. The individual reps can then add up to 25,000 members to the
campaign. The campaign sends at the time and date that the centralized marketing team set up.
Quick Send Messages
Quick Send messages enable your business users to rapidly send a single, personalized Marketing Cloud
Engagement email or SMS message to contacts, leads, and person accounts from throughout the
Salesforce platform.
There are two types of Quick Send workflows:
11.. Audience First: Users select the audience they want to target first. Then they search for the email or
SMS message that they want to send.
22.. Content First: Users select the email or SMS message they want to send first. Then they select the
audience to target.
Each of the following workflows has different audience size considerations. And each is designed to help
users quickly send content depending on where they are on the platform.
Note We recommend that customers attempt no more than 10,000 sends per minute (600,000
sends per hour) across all users. One send equates to an injection onto the journey. This volume is
rarely seen. If you believe your users as a whole have the potential to exceed this volume, talk to
your account team.
Workflow Name Workflow When Would You Use this Use Case Examples
Type Workflow?
Quick Send from Audience Send a message to one Meeting Follow-up:A
Contacts, Leads, and individual from a contact, Cumulus financial advisor had
Person Accounts lead, or person account a 1:1 meeting discussing
record. future investment options.
The advisor has the client's
contact record open and
follows up directly, sending a
pre-built white paper that
discusses 401k vs IRAs.
DM Approval Mode Audience To select the override
mode for these approvals.
DM Manual Approval Audience To set an audience
Threshold threshold if an approval
override is set.
55

=== PAGE 60 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Workflow Name Workflow When Would You Use this Use Case Examples
Type Workflow?
Quick Send from Audience Send a message to one Meeting Follow-up:A
Contacts, Leads, and individual from a contact, Cumulus financial advisor had
Person Accounts lead, or person account a 1:1 meeting discussing
record. future investment options.
The advisor has the client's
contact record open and
follows up directly, sending a
pre-built white paper that
discusses 401k vs IRAs.
Quick Send from List Audience Market Update to High-
Send a message to 1
Views Touch Clients:A Cumulus
through 75 individuals
financial advisor uses a market
from a standard or custom
update template to inform
list view.
high-touch clients of
significant market changes.
This workflow isn’t available
The advisor navigates to a pre-
in Experience Cloud
built list view (must be fewer
experiences. We
than 75 results), selects the
recommend Bulk Send for
template, and sends.
sending to list views.
Quick Send from Cases Audience Send a message to the Requests for
primary contact, lead, or Service:Northern Trail
person account on a case Outfitters (NTO) uses cases in
from a case record. Service Cloud to manage
inbound requests for product
inquiries and support. Service
reps, who spend most of their
day on cases, can reply to
inquiries using a pre-built
template that includes
inventory options and an
interactive survey directly
from the case objects. All
sends are logged on the case
for future reference.
Quick Send from Audience Send a message to a Information in an Open Deal
Opportunities contact associated with an Cycle:Cumulus financial
opportunity from an advisors use opportunities to
opportunity record. manage selling cycles. They’re
able to send messages with
product and service offerings,
56

=== PAGE 61 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Workflow Name Workflow When Would You Use this Use Case Examples
Type Workflow?
surveys, appointment
scheduling, and more from
the context of the
opportunity. All sends are
logged on the opportunity for
future reference.
Single Quick Send from Content Send a message to one Meeting Follow-up:A
Quick Send Messages individual from a Quick Cumulus financial advisor had
Send message record. a 1:1 meeting discussing
future investment options.
The advisor remembers
seeing a new shared template
called Investing After
COVID-19 earlier that week.
The advisor navigates to the
content marketplace, selects
New, finds the template, and
sends it to the client.
Bulk Quick Send from Content Send a message to 1 Happy Holidays!A Cumulus
Quick Send Messages through 100,000 financial advisor has 10,000
individuals from a Quick clients and wants to send a
Send message record. simple holiday card. The
advisor decides that a simple
thinking of you note is enough
for all clients. The advisor can
type the note one time for all
10,000 clients. Cumulus uses
Quick Sends to manage this
workflow because their reps
like how simple it’s to find and
send assets. However, they
can also use Bulk Campaign
Sends to tie this activity to ROI
(Campaign Influence), or if
the total audience is greater
than 100,000.
Bulk Send from List Audience Send a message to 1 Market Update to High-
Views through 100,000 Touch Clients:A Cumulus
individuals from a standard financial advisor uses a market
or custom contact, lead, or update template to inform
57

=== PAGE 62 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Workflow Name Workflow When Would You Use this Use Case Examples
Type Workflow?
person account list view. high-touch clients of
significant market changes.
The advisor navigates to a pre-
built list view (must be fewer
than 100,000 results), selects
the template, and sends.
Each Quick Send message you enable with Distributed Marketing gets represented as a record on the
Quick Send message custom object. This object behaves like a standard object, so you can add or
remove fields to help bring important information to the surface for your users. You can also apply
sharing rules to control the content that individual users see.
All Quick Send messages use Marketing Cloud Engagement Journeys with a single email or SMS message
activity for sending.
When setting up Quick Send, keep these considerations in mind.
•
You can’t send to the Recently Viewed list view.
•
You can’t send to a list view or opportunity record in Experience Cloud.
•
You can’t send to business accounts.
•
To control the individual Quick Send messages users can access and send, create sharing rules.
•
If person accounts are enabled, the record appears in the Contact list view and the Account list view.
When setting up Quick Send, keep these scale considerations in mind to tell your users:
•
Don’t schedule more than a single Bulk Send for the same time.
•
Don’t schedule more than 50 unique Segmented Sends for the same time.
•
Don’t schedule Segmented and Bulk Sends for the same time.
Use this table to review which features are available in quick send workflows.
Feature Contact/ List Views Cases Opportun Single Bulk Send
Lead/ ities Quick Quick
Person Send Send
Account From From
Message Message
Record Record
Sending: Send to
Yes, Yes, Yes, Yes, Yes, Yes,
contact, lead, or person
maximum maximum maximum maximum maximum maximum
accounts
one 75 one one one 100,000
recipient. recipients. recipient recipient recipient. recipients.
58

=== PAGE 63 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Feature Contact/ List Views Cases Opportun Single Bulk Send
Lead/ ities Quick Quick
Person Send Send
Account From From
Message Message
Record Record
You can You can related to related to You can You can
limit the limit the the case. the limit the limit the
total total opportunit total total
You can
number of number of y. number of number of
limit the
messages messages messages messages
total You can
sent using sent using sent using sent using
number of limit the
the the the the
messages total
Frequency Frequency Frequency Frequency
sent using number of
Cap Cap Cap Cap
the messages
defined in defined in defined in defined in
Frequency sent using
Distributed Distribute Distribute Distribute
Cap the
Marketing d d d
defined in Frequency
Administrat Marketing Marketing Marketing
Distribute Cap
ion. Administra Administra Administr
d defined in
tion. tion. ation.
Marketing Distribute
Administra d
tion. Marketing
Administr
ation.
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Sending: Send from {X}
Distributed Marketing
supports sending from
record owner and
running user.
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Sending: Schedule send
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Message
Personalization: Per-
individual modifications
Example: Select a single
recipient and modify the
email.
59

=== PAGE 64 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Feature Contact/ List Views Cases Opportun Single Bulk Send
Lead/ ities Quick Quick
Person Send Send
Account From From
Message Message
Record Record
N/A No N/A N/A N/A No
Message
Personalization: Per-
group modifications
Example: From 100
recipients, select 5 and
modify the email for the
selected 5.
N/A Yes N/A N/A N/A Yes
Message
Personalization: Per
batch modifications
Example: Modify the
email for all selected
recipients.
Message Yes, Yes, Yes, Yes, Yes, Yes,
Personalization: Default through through through through through through
modifications Quick Send Quick Quick Quick Quick Quick
defaults. Send Send Send Send Send
defaults. defaults. defaults. defaults. defaults.
Compliance & Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Approvals: Manual
Approvals
Compliance & Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Approvals: Restricted
Words
Compliance & Yes Yes, but Yes Yes Yes Yes, but
Approvals: Submission sending is sending is
Cap disabled if disabled if
the target the target
audience audience
is greater is greater
than your than your
remaining remaining
60

=== PAGE 65 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Feature Contact/ List Views Cases Opportun Single Bulk Send
Lead/ ities Quick Quick
Person Send Send
Account From From
Message Message
Record Record
sends. sends.
Compliance & N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Approvals: Message Cap
Extend Distributed Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No
Marketing: Custom
Personalization
Interaction
Extend Distributed Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Marketing: Extend Entry
Source Data
Set Up Quick Send from Contacts, Leads, and Accounts
To set up Quick Send to individuals, add the Quick Send Lightning component in Lightning App
Builder or Experience Builder to Contact, Lead, or Account page layouts. You can’t set up Quick Send
for business accounts.
Set Up Quick Send from List Views
To set up Quick Send to List Views, add the Send Quick Send Message custom button to the Contact,
Lead, or Person Account List View Search Layout in Lightning App Builder. Users can send up to 75
recipients at once.
Set Up Quick Send from Cases
To set up Quick Send from a case, add the MCDM Quick Send Message Lightning component to the
Case page layout in the Lightning App Builder or Experience Builder to a Case.
Set Up Quick Send from Opportunity Records
To set up Quick Send to Opportunity Records, add the Send Quick Send Email custom button to the
Contact, Lead, or Person Account List View Search Layout in Lightning App Builder. Quick Send to
Opportunity Records isn’t supported in Experience Cloud.
Set Up Quick Send from Quick Send Message Records
To set up Quick Send from a Quick Send Message Record, add the MCDM Quick Send Audience
component to the Quick Send Message page layout in the Lightning App Builder or Experience
Builder. When enabled, users can search for, select, and send a single contact, lead, or person account
without leaving the message.
Enable Journeys for Quick Send
Marketers can make up to 1,000 Marketing Cloud Engagement journeys per connected Business Unit
available in Distributed Marketing Quick Send workflows. Journeys are available in all Distributed
Marketing Quick Send workflows and can be shared with users using sharing rules.
61

=== PAGE 66 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Set Up Quick Send from Contacts, Leads, and Accounts
To set up Quick Send to individuals, add the Quick Send Lightning component in Lightning App Builder
or Experience Builder to Contact, Lead, or Account page layouts. You can’t set up Quick Send for
business accounts.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create and save Lightning pages in the Customize Application
Lightning App Builder:
11.. In Salesforce Setup, enter Lightning App Builder in the Quick Find box, and select Lightning App
Builder.
22.. Click New.
You can also modify an existing page instead of creating one.
33.. Click Record Page.
44.. Click Next.
55.. Create a label, for example, Contact_Quick_Send.
66.. Select the Contact, Lead, or Account object, and click Next.
77.. Select Choose Page Template and select a template, or select Clone Salesforce Default Page and
select a view.
88.. Click Finish.
99.. Drag the component MCDM Quick Send Message onto the page.
1100.. To modify the phone number used for SMS messages, enter the API name of the field that Distributed
Marketing uses as the phone number for SMS sends.
aa.. For Quick Send workflows, modify the Mobile Number API Name.
bb.. For Campaign workflows, modify the Mobile Number API Name for Contact or Mobile Number API
Name for Lead sections.
1111.. Save your changes.
1122.. Activate the page.
1133.. Assign a default page setting.
See Also
Set Up Quick Send from List Views
Set Up Quick Send from Cases
Set Up Quick Send from Quick Send Message Records
Set Up Quick Send from Opportunity Records
Set Up Quick Send from List Views
To set up Quick Send to List Views, add the Send Quick Send Message custom button to the Contact,
Lead, or Person Account List View Search Layout in Lightning App Builder. Users can send up to 75
recipients at once.
62

=== PAGE 67 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To change search layouts: Customize Application
Considerations:
•
Quick Send to List Views isn’t supported in Experience Cloud experiences. Search layouts are defined
globally. If search layouts are enabled for CRM users, the quick action can’t be hidden for Experience
Cloud users.
Note Bulk Quick Send also allows users to send to List Views and has a larger audience cap.
Consider using Bulk Quick Send instead, especially if you have CRM and Community Distributed
Marketing users.
•
When sending a Quick Send SMS message, Distributed Marketing uses the phone number defined in
the Quick Send from Contact or Lead workflows.
•
If you use Shield Platform Encryption, you can use Quick Send from List Views. Make sure that the list
view has a non-encrypted field for the first field.
11.. In Salesforce, from Setup, select Object Manager.
22.. Select the Contact, Lead, or Account object.
33.. Select Search Layouts for Salesforce Classic.
44.. Edit the List View layout.
55.. Under Custom Buttons, select Send Quick Send Message, and click Add to add the button to the
Available Buttons.
66.. Click Save.
See Also
Set Up Quick Send from Contacts, Leads, and Accounts
Set Up Quick Send from Cases
Set Up Quick Send from Quick Send Message Records
Set Up Quick Send from Opportunity Records
Set Up Quick Send from Cases
To set up Quick Send from a case, add the MCDM Quick Send Message Lightning component to the
Case page layout in the Lightning App Builder or Experience Builder to a Case.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create and save Lightning pages in the Customize Application
Lightning App Builder:
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to Setup.
63

=== PAGE 68 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
22.. In Salesforce Setup, type Lightning App Builder in the Quick Find box and click Lightning App
Builder.
33.. Click New.
Note You can modify an existing page instead of creating one.
44.. Click Record Page.
55.. Click Next.
66.. Create a label, for example, Distributed_Marketing_Case.
77.. Select Case as the object.
88.. Click Next.
99.. Select Choose Page Template and select a template, or select Clone Salesforce Default Page and
select a view.
1100.. Click Finish.
1111.. Drag the MCDM Quick Send Message component onto the page layout.
1122.. To modify the phone number used for SMS messages, enter the API name of the field for Distributed
Marketing to use as the phone number for SMS sends.
aa.. For Quick Send workflows, modify the Mobile Number API Name.
bb.. For Campaign workflows, modify the Mobile Number API Name for Contact or Mobile Number API
Name for Lead sections.
1133.. Save your changes.
1144.. Activate the page.
1155.. Assign a default page setting.
See Also
Set Up Quick Send from Contacts, Leads, and Accounts
Set Up Quick Send from List Views
Set Up Quick Send from Quick Send Message Records
Set Up Quick Send from Opportunity Records
Set Up Quick Send from Opportunity Records
To set up Quick Send to Opportunity Records, add the Send Quick Send Email custom button to the
Contact, Lead, or Person Account List View Search Layout in Lightning App Builder. Quick Send to
Opportunity Records isn’t supported in Experience Cloud.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To set up Quick Send from Opportunity Records: DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
To create and save Lightning pages in the Customize Application
Lightning App Builder
To view Lightning pages in the Lightning App View Setup and Configuration
64

=== PAGE 69 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
Builder
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to the App Builder.
22.. In the search box, find and select Lightning App Builder.
33.. Click New.
44.. Click Record Page.
55.. Click Next.
66.. Create a label. For example, Distributed_Marketing_Opportunity.
77.. Select Opportunity as the object.
88.. Click Next.
99.. Select Choose Page Template, and select a template. Or select Clone Salesforce Default Page, and
select a view.
1100.. Click Finish.
1111.. Drag the MCDM Quick Send Message component onto the page layout.
1122.. To modify the phone number used for SMS messages, enter the API name of the field for Distributed
Marketing to use.
aa.. For Quick Send workflows, modify the Mobile Number API Name.
bb.. For Campaign workflows, modify the Mobile Number API Name for Contact or Mobile Number API
Name for Lead sections.
1133.. Save your changes.
1144.. Activate the page, and assign a default page setting.
See Also
Set Up Quick Send from Contacts, Leads, and Accounts
Set Up Quick Send from Cases
Set Up Quick Send from List Views
Set Up Quick Send from Quick Send Message Records
Set Up Quick Send from Quick Send Message Records
To set up Quick Send from a Quick Send Message Record, add the MCDM Quick Send Audience
component to the Quick Send Message page layout in the Lightning App Builder or Experience Builder.
When enabled, users can search for, select, and send a single contact, lead, or person account without
leaving the message.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create and save Lightning pages in the Customize Application
Lightning App Builder:
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to Setup.
22.. In Salesforce Setup, type Lightning App Builder in the Quick Find box and click Lightning App
65

=== PAGE 70 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Builder.
33.. Click New.
Note You can modify an existing page instead of creating one.
44.. Click Record Page.
55.. Click Next.
66.. Create a label, for example, Distributed_Marketing_Case.
77.. Select Quick Send Message as the object.
88.. Click Next.
99.. Select Choose Page Template and select a template, or select Clone Salesforce Default Page and
select a view.
1100.. Click Finish.
1111.. Drag the MCDM Quick Send Audience component onto the page layout.
1122.. Save your changes.
1133.. Activate the page.
1144.. Assign a default page setting.
Bulk Quick Send from Quick Send Message Records
Allow Marketing Cloud Engagement Distributed Marketing business users to send a single,
personalized quick send message to up to 100,000 contacts, leads, or person accounts at once from
any Quick Send message record. When enabled, users can send to a single custom or standard
Salesforce list view that contains from 1 through 100,000 results.
Quick Send Message Default Values
Default personalizations allow users to streamline their Distributed Marketing experience by creating
default customizations for Quick Send messages. You can modify these customizations for individual
recipients before sending through any of the Quick Send workflows you can access.
See Also
Set Up Quick Send from Contacts, Leads, and Accounts
Set Up Quick Send from List Views
Set Up Quick Send from Cases
Set Up Quick Send from Opportunity Records
Bulk Quick Send from Quick Send Message Records
Allow Marketing Cloud Engagement Distributed Marketing business users to send a single, personalized
quick send message to up to 100,000 contacts, leads, or person accounts at once from any Quick Send
message record. When enabled, users can send to a single custom or standard Salesforce list view that
contains from 1 through 100,000 results.
66

=== PAGE 71 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To manage permission set assignments: Assign Permission Sets
When enabling Bulk Quick Send, keep these considerations in mind:
•
Access to Bulk Quick Sends is granted using a custom permission set: DM Bulk Send.
•
Bulk Quick Sends don’t support Distributed Marketing manual approval workflow settings. However,
restricted words are supported.
•
Business users can preview content for the first 100 recipients in the list view, regardless of total
audience size.
•
Modifications made using Distributed Marketing content blocks apply to all recipients. Per-individual
modifications by business users aren’t supported.
•
Custom Personalization Interactions aren’t supported. However, external entry source data is
supported.
•
Users can send to person accounts using Contact list views but not Account list views.
•
If the user who prepares the send is different from the user who starts the send, the User ID stored in
the Marketing Cloud Engagement event data extension (sfUserId) is the user who prepares the send.
Note Configure the MDCM Quick Send Audience component to make this workflow visible to users.
See Set Up Quick Send from Quick Send Message Records.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to Setup.
22.. In Salesforce Setup, type Permission Sets in the Quick Find box, and click Permission Sets.
33.. Click DM Bulk Send.
44.. Click Manage Assignments.
55.. Assign the permissions set to your Distributed Marketing business users. Users can now access to the
Bulk tab in the MCDM Quick Send Audience component.
Note If your organization uses the Collaborative Campaigns (Auto Send) feature, you can add up
to 100,000 members for a given Auto Send campaign, or a total of 100,000 members across
campaigns scheduled at the same time by the same person. If you exceed the 100,000 member
limit, the Auto Send only sends 100,000. If your audience is greater than 100,000 members total
across multiple campaigns to send to, consider staggering the sends in 5-minute intervals.
Quick Send Message Default Values
Default personalizations allow users to streamline their Distributed Marketing experience by creating
default customizations for Quick Send messages. You can modify these customizations for individual
recipients before sending through any of the Quick Send workflows you can access.
67

=== PAGE 72 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create and save Lightning pages in the Customize Application
Lightning App Builder
To view Lightning pages in the Lightning App View Setup and Configuration
Builder
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to Setup.
22.. In Salesforce Setup, type Lightning App Builder in the Quick Find box and click Lightning App Builder.
33.. Edit the page layout for the Quick Send Message object.
44.. Drag the MCDM Quick Send Defaults component onto the page layout.
55.. Save your changes.
Enable Journeys for Quick Send
Marketers can make up to 1,000 Marketing Cloud Engagement journeys per connected Business Unit
available in Distributed Marketing Quick Send workflows. Journeys are available in all Distributed
Marketing Quick Send workflows and can be shared with users using sharing rules.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To enable a journey for Quick Send: DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
Follow these steps to enable journeys for Quick Send:
11.. From the App Launcher, find and open Distributed Marketing Administration.
22.. Navigate to Quick Send.
33.. Select a business unit.
44.. Select a journey and click Add.
Tip To add journeys from multiple business units at once, select up to 30 journeys across the
available business units.
55.. Click Apply Changes.
Use Distributed Marketing to Organize Content with Topics
Assign one or more topics to each Quick Send to create content lists that you can easily search and
manage.
11.. In Salesforce, from the App Launcher, search for and open Distributed Marketing Administration.
22.. Navigate to the Configuration section, click Content Topics.
68

=== PAGE 73 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
33.. Select one or more Quick Send templates to manage.
44.. Click the Tag icon to view and create topics.
55.. To create a topic, click New, label the topic, and click Add.
66.. Select one or more topics to categorize your Quick Send templates.
Note For an admin to assign Topics to a Quick Send, you must manually enable Topics for the
Quick send Message object.
77.. Click Apply Changes.
Use Distributed Marketing with Tokenized Sending
Keep these considerations in mind when you use Distributed Marketing with Marketing Cloud
Engagement accounts that use tokenized sending.
General Considerations:
•
The Distributed Marketing entry source data extensions and personalization data extensions can’t have
encrypted fields. This setup is typical.
•
Journeys must be configured to use tokenized email addresses and phone numbers. Review
considerations for each supported channel for journey configuration changes.
•
Sometimes users can't send to new or updated recipients immediately. Contacts, leads, and person
accounts (recipients) must be synchronized into Marketing Cloud Engagement and exist on your token
server before sending through Distributed Marketing. When using synchronized data extensions,
Marketing Cloud Engagement polls objects on a configurable interval. This interval is the minimum
amount of time a user must wait before sending through Distributed Marketing after adding a
recipient. It's also the minimum wait time when updating the email address or mobile number of an
existing recipient.
Email Considerations:
•
Configure journeys to use the tokenized email address. The email address used for the recipient is the
email address on the Marketing Cloud Engagement contact record. It's not the email address normally
seen in the Distributed Marketing entry event data extension. When creating the journey’s event data
extension, don’t include the email field. When configuring journey settings, set the Default Email
Address to Use email attribute from Contacts, and select the appropriate field.
Note If the email address stored in your CRM or Experience Cloud environment is the tokenized
email address, you can configure journeys using the standard Distributed Marketing
configuration.
•
Configure a unique journey for each object type you support. When synchronizing CRM contacts,
leads, or person accounts into Marketing Cloud Engagement, each is represented as a separate object
in Marketing Cloud Engagement Contact Model. If your distributed marketing users send to more than
one CRM object, you must configure a unique journey for each object type, where the Default Email
Address is selected from the respective object.
•
Ensure that the email address is in your token server. When sending in tokenized environments,
Marketing Cloud Engagement doesn’t send to the plain text email address. It sends to the token,
69

=== PAGE 74 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
which is resolved at send time.
SMS Considerations:
•
Configure journeys to use the correct mobile number. The mobile number used for the recipient is the
mobile number on the contact record, not the mobile number normally used in the Distributed
Marketing entry event data extension. When configuring journey settings, set the Default Mobile
Number to Use mobile number attribute from Contacts, and select the appropriate field.
Note If the mobile number stored in your CRM or Experience Cloud environment is the tokenized
number, you can configure journeys using the standard Distributed Marketing configuration.
•
Configure a unique journey for each object type you support. When synchronizing CRM contacts,
leads, or person accounts into Marketing Cloud Engagement, each is represented as a separate object
in Marketing Cloud Engagement Contact Model. If your distributed marketing users send to more than
one CRM object, you must configure a unique journey for each object type, where the Default Mobile
Number is selected from the respective object.
•
Ensure that the mobile number is in your token server. Similar to an email address, Marketing Cloud
Engagement sends to the tokenized number, not the plain-text number.
•
Ensure that the tokenized mobile number and Contact Key are opted in before sending. In Distributed
Marketing, the Contact Key is the Contact Id or Lead Id in CRM. The Contact Key is represented as the
id in the event data extension. The id relates to the subscriber on the Subscriber Key.
See Also
Synchronized Data Sources in Contact Builder
Create a Mobile Opt-In Message in MobileConnect
Tokenized Sending
Use Distributed Marketing with Field Level Encryption
Keep these considerations and limitations in mind when you use Distributed Marketing with Marketing
Cloud Engagement accounts that use Field Level Encryption.
General Considerations:
•
The Distributed Marketing entry source data extensions and personalization data extensions can’t have
encrypted fields.
•
Journeys must be configured to use encrypted email addresses and phone numbers. Review
considerations for each supported channel for journey configuration changes.
•
A value must exist for email addresses and phone numbers in CRM. This value is included in the
Distributed Marketing injection payload (API). If the event data extension is configured without the
fields (see channel considerations), this value isn’t stored in Marketing Cloud Engagement by
Distributed Marketing. Also, this value can be encrypted.
•
Recipients including Contacts, Leads, and Person Accounts must be synchronized into Marketing
Cloud Engagement before sending through Distributed Marketing. When using synchronized data
extensions, Marketing Cloud Engagement polls objects on a configurable interval. This interval is the
minimum amount of time a user must wait before sending through Distributed Marketing after adding
70

=== PAGE 75 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
a recipient. It's also the minimum wait time when updating the email address or mobile number of an
existing recipient.
Email Considerations:
•
Configure journeys to use the encrypted email address. The email address used for the recipient is the
email address on the Marketing Cloud Engagement contact record, not the email address normally
seen in the Distributed Marketing entry event data extension. When creating the journey’s event data
extension, don't include the email field. When configuring journey settings, set the Default Email
Address to Use email attribute from Contacts, and select the appropriate field.
•
Configure a unique journey for each object type you support. When synchronizing CRM Contacts,
Leads, or Person Accounts into Marketing Cloud Engagement, each is represented as a separate object
in Marketing Cloud Engagement Contact Model. If your distributed marketing users send to more than
one CRM object, you must configure a unique journey for each object type, where the Default Email
Address is selected from the respective object.
SMS Considerations:
•
Configure journeys to use the correct mobile number. The mobile number used for the recipient is the
mobile number on the contact record, not the mobile number normally used in the Distributed
Marketing entry event data extension. When configuring journey settings, set the Default Mobile
Number to Use mobile number attribute from Contacts, and select the appropriate field.
•
Configure a unique journey for each object type you support. When synchronizing CRM contacts,
leads, or person accounts into Marketing Cloud Engagement, each is represented as a separate object
in Marketing Cloud Engagement Contact Model. If your Distributed Marketing users send to more
than one CRM object, you must configure a unique journey for each object type, where the Default
Mobile Number is selected from the respective object.
•
Ensure that the tokenized mobile number and Contact Key are opted in before sending through
Distributed Marketing. In Distributed Marketing, the Contact Key is the Contact Id or Lead Id in CRM.
The Contact Key is represented as the id in the event data extension. The id relates to the subscriber
on the Subscriber Key.
Manage Settings
Distributed Marketing allows you to enhance your CRM with Marketing Cloud Engagement content to
send relevant, on-brand content at every touchpoint. With administrator access, typically granted to
marketers, connect a Marketing Cloud Engagement journey to a campaign, enable Quick Send, and
customize Distributed Marketing to fit your needs.
11.. Administer Default Greeting Options
To help control voice and tone, select the greeting options for standard Distributed Marketing users to
choose from. Distributed Marketing automatically includes First Name and Full Name options, which
can’t be edited or removed. If you use custom fields, such as Preferred Name, add up to eight more
greeting options.
22.. Administer Org-Wide Pending Member Table Defaults
After contacts, leads, or person accounts are added to campaigns, standard Distributed Marketing
71

=== PAGE 76 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
users review campaign members to personalize content and to approve or reject them for receiving
messages. You can define the default fields your users see. By default, the list of pending campaign
members is sorted by the creation date, which is when the member was added to the campaign.
33.. Administer Compliance and Approvals
Ensure that your content remains on brand and legally compliant. Use a Salesforce Approval Process to
route Distributed Marketing content to other Salesforce users to review, automatically block sends
containing customer-defined restricted words, and define a list of domains that user-defined images
can come from.
44.. Administer the Personalization Experience Default Mode
Help business users more efficiently engage with distributed content by defining whether their
personalization experience opens in edit or preview mode.
55.. Administer the Email Header
Show business users who an email is going to, and who it is sent from, as part of the Distributed
Marketing preview. The To information displays the standard Name and Email Address fields on the
recipient’s contact or lead record. The From information displays the standard Name and Address
fields on the record of the running user or record owner.
66.. Administer Frequency Capping
Define the maximum number of sends a user can initiate through Distributed Marketing. Users see the
number of messages remaining before they send a message. When the cap is reached, sending is
disabled until the cap is reset. The frequency send cap can be reset daily, weekly, or monthly. The cap
resets at midnight in the user’s time zone and is a rolling reset. Sends are credited back 1, 7, or 30 days
after they’re consumed. If your organization uses Bulk Sends, users can’t target an audience with more
recipients than remaining sends.
77.. Administer the Campaign Send Audience Batch Cap
Set the maximum number of campaign members that can be sent to at once when performing a
Segmented Send. Reducing the number of individuals included in segments can help improve
performance for customers who have backend processes based on campaigns or campaign members.
If your organization uses Bulk Send, the batch cap doesn’t apply.
88.. Track Activities with Distributed Marketing Reports
Distributed Marketing administrators can enable tracking for Distributed Marketing sends to provide
visibility on what activities Distributed Marketing uses most.
99.. Enable Send Scheduling
Allow business users to schedule single and bulk send Quick Send messages for a future time and
date. Messages are scheduled and sent in the running user’s time zone. Messages must be scheduled
at least 5 minutes in the future and can be canceled up to 5 minutes before the send.
1100.. Enable Segmented Sends
You can specify which users can view segmented sends within a campaign. Segmented sends were
previously the default.
1111.. Restrict Sending
Prevent business users from temporarily using content, or retire content permanently.
See Also
Quick Send Messages
72

=== PAGE 77 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Administer Default Greeting Options
To help control voice and tone, select the greeting options for standard Distributed Marketing users to
choose from. Distributed Marketing automatically includes First Name and Full Name options, which
can’t be edited or removed. If you use custom fields, such as Preferred Name, add up to eight more
greeting options.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To set default personalization and options: DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
11.. In Salesforce, from the App Launcher, find and open Distributed Marketing Administration.
Tip You can also access Distributed Marketing Administration by clicking Administration from the
Campaign Messages component on a Campaign record page.
22.. To add custom greeting options, click Add Another Greeting.
Note Each greeting requires an associated field for every object.
33.. To set a default greeting option, click Set Default for that option.
44.. To save your changes, click Apply Changes.
Tip You can remove any greeting option that isn’t set as the default option.
Administer Org-Wide Pending Member Table Defaults
After contacts, leads, or person accounts are added to campaigns, standard Distributed Marketing users
review campaign members to personalize content and to approve or reject them for receiving messages.
You can define the default fields your users see. By default, the list of pending campaign members is
sorted by the creation date, which is when the member was added to the campaign.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To customize the pending member table: DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
11.. In Salesforce, from the App Launcher, find and open Distributed Marketing Administration.
22.. In the Pending Campaign Member Table section, move fields between Available Fields and Visible
Fields using the left and right arrows.
33.. Reorder the fields using the up and down arrows.
Tip You can’t remove Created Date or Name fields, but you can change where they show up in the
table.
73

=== PAGE 78 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
44.. Select Apply Changes.
Administer Compliance and Approvals
Ensure that your content remains on brand and legally compliant. Use a Salesforce Approval Process to
route Distributed Marketing content to other Salesforce users to review, automatically block sends
containing customer-defined restricted words, and define a list of domains that user-defined images can
come from.
Enable Manual Approval
Ensure that content sent through Distributed Marketing is compliant by routing sends through other
Salesforce users for review. To enable manual approval, create an approvals process for Distributed
Marketing content. Then enable manual approvals in the Distributed Marketing Administration app.
Designated approvers review content before it's sent.
Define Restricted Words
Define a list of words that, when detected in Distributed Marketing rich or plain text areas,
automatically disable sending through Distributed Marketing. You can define specific words to restrict,
and you can use standard regular expressions to prevent business users from sending information
that’s deemed sensitive, such as account numbers.
Define Valid Image Domains
Provide up to 10 domains that business users can add images from when providing a custom image
via a URL. If a business user enters a URL with an invalid domain, sending features are disabled.
Enable Manual Approval
Ensure that content sent through Distributed Marketing is compliant by routing sends through other
Salesforce users for review. To enable manual approval, create an approvals process for Distributed
Marketing content. Then enable manual approvals in the Distributed Marketing Administration app.
Designated approvers review content before it's sent.
Note Enabling the approval process affects the max number of individuals that can be sent to at
once, during a Segmented Send.
Here are some considerations when enabling manual approval:
•
Manual approval uses a Salesforce Approval Process. Take the Flow Builder module in Trailhead.
•
If you have the DM Approver permission set, you can see the preview on the approval record.
•
Approval can be required all the time or only when certain conditions apply.
•
If a send cap is defined, sends are consumed when the business user submits the send for approval,
not when the send is approved or rejected. If a send is rejected, the send isn't credited back to the
business user until the cap is reset.
•
When a message is assigned to an approver, the approver can preview, approve, or reject the content.
Approvers don't require access to the rest of Distributed Marketing.
•
When a business user submits a single email for approval, such as when sending a message using
74

=== PAGE 79 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Quick Send, the email is sent after the content is approved. If the email is rejected, the message isn't
sent.
•
When a business user submits multiple messages for approval using campaign sends, emails are sent
after all emails on the journey are approved. If any of the emails are rejected, no messages are sent.
The associated campaign members are available for resubmission on the Pending Submissions Page
(formerly the Pending Approvals page).
•
If a message is rejected, approvers can leave rejection reasons using the standard approval process
comments feature. The submitter doesn't currently receive a notification.
•
If there's an error sending a message, such as when a required field is missing, the submitter receives a
notification to the email address listed on their user record.
•
If the approval process is enabled, the maximum number of individuals that can be sent to at once in
the campaign decreases. Consider lowering the cap or selecting fewer members for submission.
Results can vary, but 200 is likely the max when approvals are on.
Create an Approval Process for Distributed Marketing
Define the Salesforce users who are responsible for approving Distributed Marketing content and the
workflow they follow. You can create a simple approval process for Distributed Marketing, or a more
complex approval process, to support your specific business needs by modifying approver and action
selections.
Enable Manual Approval for Distributed Marketing
You can enable manual approval for Marketing Cloud Engagement Distributed Marketing. Bulk sends
are also supported in manual approval.
Create a Bulk Send Approval Process for Distributed Marketing
Specify the Salesforce users who are responsible for bulk approving Distributed Marketing content,
and configure the workflow that they follow.
Create an Approval Process for Distributed Marketing
Define the Salesforce users who are responsible for approving Distributed Marketing content and the
workflow they follow. You can create a simple approval process for Distributed Marketing, or a more
complex approval process, to support your specific business needs by modifying approver and action
selections.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an approval process: Customize Applications
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to Setup.
22.. In Quick Find, search for and select Approval Processes.
33.. In Manage Approval Processes For: select MCDM Submission.
••
For bulk send, select Bulk Send Job.
44.. From the Create New Approval Process picklist, select Use Jump Start Wizard.
55.. Name the approval process (required).
75

=== PAGE 80 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
66.. Choose an approver.
aa.. To assign to a specific user such as a compliance team, select Automatically assign to approver(s)
and specify the user.
bb.. To assign to a user based on the submitter's hierarchy field, select Automatically assign an
approver using a standard or custom hierarchy field, and then pick an option from the dropdown.
Note Manually choosing the approver isn’t supported.
77.. Click Save.
88.. Click View Approval Process Detail Page.
99.. In the Final Approval Actions section, select Edit on the Record Lock action.
1100.. Select Unlock the record for editing.
1111.. Click Save.
1122.. In the Final Approval Actions section, select Add New then Field Update.
1133.. Name the field update. For example, "Send".
1144.. In the Field to Update picklist, select Status.
1155.. In the Specify New Field Value list, select A specific field.
1166.. In the picklist, select Send.
1177.. Click Save
1188.. In Final Rejection Actions, select Add New and then Field Update.
1199.. Name the field update. For example, Reject.
2200.. In the Field to Update picklist, select Status.
2211.. In the Specify New Field Value list, select A specific value.
2222.. In the picklist, select Reject.
2233.. Click Save.
2244.. Click Activate and accept the dialogue.
Enable Manual Approval for Distributed Marketing
You can enable manual approval for Marketing Cloud Engagement Distributed Marketing. Bulk sends are
also supported in manual approval.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To enable manual approval: Installed Package | DMAdministrator License and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace).
11.. In the Salesforce App Launcher, find and open Distributed Marketing Administration.
22.. Navigate to the Compliance and Approvals section
33.. Choose an option for Enable Manual Approval.
aa.. Select Never to send through Distributed Marketing without manual approval.
bb.. Select Always to require approval for all Distributed Marketing sends.
cc.. Select Only when content is modified to require approval when the business user modifies
content. Content is considered modified if it’s different from the content in Marketing Cloud
Engagement. Differences include modifications made by defining default values for campaign
76

=== PAGE 81 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
sends.
dd.. Select Target audience is greater than or equal to option to require approval when business users
target a certain audience size. If you select this option, define a value from 2 to 250.
Note Create at least one approval process associated with the MCDM Submission object before
you enable manual approval.
Create a Bulk Send Approval Process for Distributed Marketing
Specify the Salesforce users who are responsible for bulk approving Distributed Marketing content, and
configure the workflow that they follow.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an approval process: Customize Applications
11.. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, search for and select Approval Processes.
22.. In Manage Approval Processes For, select Bulk Send Job.
33.. For Create New Approval Process, select Use Jump Start Wizard.
44.. Give your approval process a unique name.
55.. Select an approver.
••
To assign to a specific user such as a compliance team, select Automatically assign to approver(s)
and specify the user.
••
To assign to a user based on the submitter's hierarchy field, select Automatically assign an
approver using a standard or custom hierarchy field, and then pick an option from the dropdown.
66.. Click Save.
77.. Click View Approval Process Detail Page, and then click Edit.
88.. In the dropdown, select Approver Field and Record Editability.
99.. In the Record Editability Properties section, select who can edit records.
1100.. Click Save.
1111.. In the Final Approval Actions section, select Edit.
1122.. Select Unlock the record for editing and click Save.
1133.. In Final Approval Actions, select Add New → Field Update.
aa.. Name the field.
bb.. For Field to Update, select Is Approved.
cc.. For Specify New Field Value, select A specific value.
dd.. For Send, select True.
ee.. Click Save.
1144.. In the Final Rejection Actions section, select Add New → Field Update.
aa.. Name the field.
bb.. For Field to Update, select Is Reject.
cc.. For Specify New Field Value, select A specific value.
dd.. For Send, select True.
ee.. Click Save.
77

=== PAGE 82 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
1155.. Click Save.
Define Restricted Words
Define a list of words that, when detected in Distributed Marketing rich or plain text areas, automatically
disable sending through Distributed Marketing. You can define specific words to restrict, and you can use
standard regular expressions to prevent business users from sending information that’s deemed
sensitive, such as account numbers.
Keep these considerations in mind when defining restricted words:
•
Words must be alphanumeric characters. Punctuation and special characters aren't supported.
•
Separate words by new lines, commas, or spaces.
•
Words are case insensitive.
•
The word limit is approximately 900,000 words, or about 6 million characters, including the delimiters
in the .csv file.
Enter Restricted Words or Regular Expressions Manually
You can manually enter restricted words and standard regular expressions for Distributed Marketing.
Upload a List of Restricted Words or Regular Expressions
You can upload a list of restricted words. Enter at least one restricted word manually to enable this
option.
Enter Restricted Words or Regular Expressions Manually
You can manually enter restricted words and standard regular expressions for Distributed Marketing.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To enter restricted words or regular expressions: Installed Package | DM Administrator License and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace).
11.. In Salesforce, from the App Launcher, find, and open Distributed Marketing Administration.
22.. Navigate to the Compliance and Approvals section.
33.. Turn on the option to disable sending when a message includes a restricted word.
44.. Manually enter restricted words and regular expressions separated by new lines, spaces, or commas.
Upload a List of Restricted Words or Regular Expressions
You can upload a list of restricted words. Enter at least one restricted word manually to enable this
option.
78

=== PAGE 83 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To upload a list of restricted words or regular Installed Package | DM Administrator License and
expressions: Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace).
11.. In Salesforce, from the App Launcher, find, and open Distributed Marketing Administration.
22.. Navigate to the Compliance and Approvals section.
33.. Enable restricted words.
44.. Select Advanced Setup. The system opens the Distributed Marketing Restricted Words record.
55.. Select Related.
66.. Select the Distributed_Marketing_Restricted_Words .csv file.
Note When you create a CSV file, be aware that the file can contain restricted words and regular
expressions. Enter the list of words first, followed by this: ---BLOCKLIST_SEPARATOR--- . Then list
the regular expressions. Restricted words can be separated by a space or a new line. Each regular
expression must be on a separate line.
77.. Select Upload New Version.
Note Distributed Marketing uses the latest version of the first created file on this record.
Uploading a new CSV file doesn’t update the blocklist. Upload the file as a new version of the first
created file.
88.. Select your own CSV file (comma or new line separated files are supported). The new list of restricted
words is used, and shows in the Compliance and Approvals section in Distributed Marketing
Administration.
Define Valid Image Domains
Provide up to 10 domains that business users can add images from when providing a custom image via a
URL. If a business user enters a URL with an invalid domain, sending features are disabled.
Here are some considerations when defining valid image domains:
•
Domains are explicit. For example, https://salesforce.com and https://www.salesforce.com are
considered two separate domains.
•
Domains must contain https://.
•
If you don’t specify any domains, Distributed Marketing accepts any domain.
To provide a valid domain, follow these steps.
11.. In Salesforce, from the App Launcher, find and open Distributed Marketing Administration.
22.. In the Compliance and Approvals section, enter up to 10 domains.
33.. Click Apply Changes.
79

=== PAGE 84 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Administer the Personalization Experience Default Mode
Help business users more efficiently engage with distributed content by defining whether their
personalization experience opens in edit or preview mode.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To define the default personalization experience Installed Package | DM Administrator permission
default mode:
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to AppLauncher.
22.. Select Distributed Marketing Administration.
33.. In the Personalization Modal section, select the default mode.
44.. Select Apply Changes.
Tip If you’ve created content with lots of Distributed Marketing content blocks for collaboration,
consider changing the default mode to Edit to reduce clicks.
Administer the Email Header
Show business users who an email is going to, and who it is sent from, as part of the Distributed
Marketing preview. The To information displays the standard Name and Email Address fields on the
recipient’s contact or lead record. The From information displays the standard Name and Address fields
on the record of the running user or record owner.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To Administer the Email Header DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
are required.
Here are some considerations for displaying the email header information:
•
Display the email header information only if you’re using the standard Distributed Marketing sender
profile. The email header information doesn’t update to show custom solutions, such as dynamic
sender profiles.
•
When enabled, email header information appears in the Distributed Marketing personalization modal
preview. It’s not shown when editing.
•
This global setting applies to all users.
Follow these steps to administer the email header:
80

=== PAGE 85 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
11.. In Salesforce, from the App Launcher, find and open Distributed Marketing Administration.
22.. Select the Email Header section.
33.. To display Send To information, enable the Display “Send To” Information? option.
44.. To display Send From information, enable the Display “Send From” Information? option and select
the Send From options to enable for your users. A default option is required.
Administer Frequency Capping
Define the maximum number of sends a user can initiate through Distributed Marketing. Users see the
number of messages remaining before they send a message. When the cap is reached, sending is
disabled until the cap is reset. The frequency send cap can be reset daily, weekly, or monthly. The cap
resets at midnight in the user’s time zone and is a rolling reset. Sends are credited back 1, 7, or 30 days
after they’re consumed. If your organization uses Bulk Sends, users can’t target an audience with more
recipients than remaining sends.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To administer frequency capping: DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
To define the audience batch cap, follow these steps:
11.. In App Launcher, search for and select Distributed Marketing Administration.
22.. In the Configuration section, select Compliance & Approvals.
33.. In the Frequency Capping section, enter a maximum number of sends per user.
44.. Select the duration.
55.. Click Apply Changes.
Example
11.. If today is May 26 and the send cap allows you 10 messages daily, anything that you send on May
26 is counted for that day. At 12:00:00 AM on May 27, the send cap resets and you can send 10
more messages.
22.. If the send cap is set to 6 messages weekly, your sends could look like this:
••
Monday: you send 2 messages
••
Tuesday: you send 0 messages
••
Wednesday: you send 4 messages
••
Thursday: blocked - you reached your weekly limit
••
Friday: blocked - you reached your weekly limit
••
Saturday: blocked - you reached your weekly limit
••
Sunday: blocked - you reached your weekly limit
••
Monday: you now have 2 sends available
81

=== PAGE 86 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
••
Tuesday: you still have 2 sends available
••
Wednesday: you now have 6 sends available
Administer the Campaign Send Audience Batch Cap
Set the maximum number of campaign members that can be sent to at once when performing a
Segmented Send. Reducing the number of individuals included in segments can help improve
performance for customers who have backend processes based on campaigns or campaign members. If
your organization uses Bulk Send, the batch cap doesn’t apply.
User Permissions Needed
To administer the campaign send audience batch DMAdministrator License permission set and
cap: Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
To define the audience batch cap, follow these steps:
11.. In App Launcher, search for and select Distributed Marketing Administration.
22.. In the Configuration section, select Compliance & Approvals.
33.. In the Campaign Send Audience Batch Cap section, enter from 1 through 500.
Note If manual approvals are enabled the maximum number of individuals that can be sent to at
once in the campaign decreases. Results can vary, but 200 is likely the max when approvals are
on.
44.. Click Apply Changes.
Example Define a campaign batch cap of 300. When users perform a segmented send, they can
select, personalize, and submit up to 300 campaign members at once.
Track Activities with Distributed Marketing Reports
Distributed Marketing administrators can enable tracking for Distributed Marketing sends to provide
visibility on what activities Distributed Marketing uses most.
Note Enabling this tracking adds to storage consumption limits. We recommend tracking
consumption and deleting older objects that are no longer needed.
82

=== PAGE 87 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Track Quick Send Activities with Distributed Marketing
You can enable tracking Distributed Marketing sends to monitor what Quick Send Distributed
Marketing uses most. You have two options to view adoption records for leads and contacts. The
option you choose depends on whether you’re using Experience Cloud or Communities and whether
you need to display the adoption records. Tracking activities adds to your storage consumption limits.
To stay within your limits, we recommend deleting objects that are no longer needed.
Distributed Marketing Activity Log Objects
Distributed Marketing for Marketing Cloud Engagement uses these tracking objects.
Enable Engagement Tracking in Distributed Marketing
Track your customer engagement in Distributed Marketing (DM).
Create a Dashboard for Distributed Marketing Engagement Tracking
To enable reporting on individual email results (IERs) with Distributed Marketing (DM) activity log
data, create a custom report type with IERs and DM Activity Logs.
Track Quick Send Activities with Distributed Marketing
You can enable tracking Distributed Marketing sends to monitor what Quick Send Distributed Marketing
uses most. You have two options to view adoption records for leads and contacts. The option you choose
depends on whether you’re using Experience Cloud or Communities and whether you need to display
the adoption records. Tracking activities adds to your storage consumption limits. To stay within your
limits, we recommend deleting objects that are no longer needed.
If your organization does display Distributed Marketing records in Sales Cloud or Experience Cloud,
follow these steps.
11.. Go to a Contact or Lead record page.
22.. If you display Distributed Marketing records in Sales Cloud or Experience Cloud, use these steps.
83

=== PAGE 88 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
aa.. At the top of the page, click the Setup cog, and select Edit Object.
bb.. Select Page Layouts, and select the page that you want to modify.
cc.. Click Related Lists, and drag DM Activity Log to the page.
dd.. Select the fields that you want to display in the log.
Because users aren’t creating these records manually, we recommend deselecting New and Change
Owner.
ee.. Click Save.
33.. If your org doesn't need to display Distributed Marketing records in Experience Cloud, use these steps.
aa.. At the top of the page, click the Setup cog, and select Edit Page.
bb.. Drag a Dynamic Related List - Single component to the page.
cc.. Set the related list to DM Activity Log, and configure the type as list.
Up to 30 records can be displayed.
dd.. Select up to 10 fields to display.
Only the List Type in a main region can display more than four fields.
ee.. To display fields from lookups directly in the list, add formula fields to the DM Activity Log and
expose those fields. You can then select the fields when configuring the Dynamic Related List in the
page editor.
ff.. Click Save.
Distributed Marketing Activity Log Objects
Distributed Marketing for Marketing Cloud Engagement uses these tracking objects.
Field or Object Name Description
Activity Send Type The type of activity for this send, either Email or
SMS.
Approver The user that approved the Distributed Marketing
send.
Bulk Send Job Lookup to the Bulk Send job if this activity was
triggered by a bulk send job.
Bulk Send Job ID ID of the bulk send job, saved in the event the
Bulk Send Job lookup is deleted.
Campaign Lookup to the campaign if the activity is related to
a campaign sending flow.
Campaign ID ID of the campaign, saved in the event the
campaign lookup is deleted.
Campaign Linked Journey Lookup to the linked journey if this activity is
related to a campaign-linked journey.
Campaign Linked Journey ID ID of the campaign linked journey Journey ID,
saved in the event the Campaign Linked Journey
84

=== PAGE 89 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Field or Object Name Description
ID lookup is deleted.
Campaign Member ID ID of the campaign member if sent via a
campaign sending flow.
Case Lookup to the case object if this activity is related
to a quick send from Case.
Case ID ID of the Case record saved in the event the Case
lookup is deleted.
DM Activity Log Contains metadata for sends through DM for
selected sending flows. A single record is created
for each email and member on any injection into
a Marketing Cloud Engagement journey. You can
report on this object and create visualizations in
the form of dashboards and reports. The
metadata included provides information about
the send type, recipient, sender, and activity
(email). See individual field descriptions or
Distributed Marketing Salesforce Help for more
information.
DM Action ID Unique ID that is the same for an entire DM
sending action. Can be used in reports to group
DM sends by a sending action.
DM Auto Send Lookup to the DM auto send if this activity is
related to a DM auto send.
DM Auto Send ID ID of the DM auto send, saved in the event the
DM Auto Send lookup is deleted.
Stores DM-specific error messages that occurred
DM Error
during or after injection.
For future use.
DM Scheduled Send Lookup to the DM scheduled send if this activity is
related to a scheduled sending flow.
DM Scheduled Send ID ID of the DM scheduled send, saved in the event
the DM Scheduled Send, lookup is deleted.
DM Submission Lookup to the DM submission object if this activity
is related to an approval sending flow.
DM Submission ID ID of the DM submission record saved in the event
the DM submission lookup is deleted.
85

=== PAGE 90 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Field or Object Name Description
DM Tracking ID Unique ID for this DM injection that is stored in
the DM Entry Source DE. It can be used to tie back
Marketing Cloud Engagement data to the DM
Activity Logs.
Email ID ID of the Marketing Cloud Engagement email
activity.
Email Name Name of the Marketing Cloud Engagement email
activity.
Email Subject Line The email’s main subject line is stored here.
Has Injection Error This activity had errors while injecting into a
journey.
This activity has DM P13n Field Mappings applied
Has P13n Field Mappings
to it via Extending the Entry Source DE.
For future use.
This activity has DM personalizations applied.
Has Personalizations
For future use.
IER Linking ID For future use to link engagement data with IER
records in the Marketing Cloud Engagement
Connect package.
Initial Sender Lookup to the user that initiated the DM Send for
this activity (possibly doesn’t match with Send
From User).
Injected Contact Lookup to the contact that was injected into the
journey.
Injected Lead Lookup to the lead that was injected into the
journey.
Is Approval This activity was sent through an Approvals flow.
Is Auto Send This activity was sent through an Auto Send flow.
Is Bulk Send This activity was sent through a Bulk Send flow.
Is Campaign Send This activity was sent through a Campaign sending
flow.
Is Contact This activity was sent to a contact.
86

=== PAGE 91 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Field or Object Name Description
Is Lead This activity was sent to a lead.
Is List View Send This activity was sent through a List View Mass
Action flow.
Is Person Account This activity was sent to a person account.
Is Quick Send This activity was sent through a Quick Send flow.
Is Scheduled This activity was scheduled.
Is Segmented Send This activity was sent through a Segmented Send
flow.
MCDM Send Type The type of Distributed Marketing send.
MC Journey ID ID of the Marketing Cloud Engagement journey.
MC Journey Name Name of the Marketing Cloud Engagement
journey.
MC Journey Version Version number of the Marketing Cloud journey.
MC Triggered Send ID ID of the Marketing Cloud Engagement triggered
send ID associated with this activity.
Member Email Email of the member that was injected into the
journey.
Member Name Name of the member that was injected into the
journey.
Member Phone Phone number of the member that was injected
into the journey.
Member Phone Field Used API Name of the phone number field used in this
activity.
Opportunity Lookup to the Opportunity object if this activity
was related to a quick send from Opportunity.
Opportunity ID ID of the Opportunity record saved in the event
the Opportunity lookup is deleted.
Quick Send Message Lookup to the Quick Send Message object if this
activity was related to a quick send flow.
Quick Send Message ID ID of the Quick Send Message record saved in the
event the Quick Send Message lookup is deleted.
Send From Email Email of the Send From User (Running User or
Record Owner).
87

=== PAGE 92 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Field or Object Name Description
Send From Name Name of the Send From User (Running User or
Record Owner).
Send From User Lookup to the user determined by the DM Send
From User settings. This object can be the
Running User or the Record Owner.
SMS ID ID of the Marketing Cloud Engagement SMS
activity.
SMS Name Name of the Marketing Cloud Engagement SMS
activity.
Enable Engagement Tracking in Distributed Marketing
Track your customer engagement in Distributed Marketing (DM).
Install and configure Marketing Cloud Connect and enable individual email reporting (IER).
11.. In Marketing Cloud Engagement, enable the sendLog data extension in your MIDs. You can also
enable your entire EID.
22.. For each journey that you want to track, add a VARCHAR(50) attribute named dmTrackingId to the
entry event data extension.
For an existing journey, tracking starts after dmTracking is added to the entry event data extension
and all enablement steps for tracking are completed.
33.. Add a column to the sendLog DE named dmTrackingId mapped as a VARCHAR(50) attribute. The
name is case-sensitive.
44.. In Sales and Service Cloud, open DM Administration and click Reporting.
55.. Enable Activity Log Reporting Options for any DM sending flows you want to track engagement for.
66.. Link IERs with DM activity log records by creating a Lookup field to DM Activity Log on the IER object.
aa.. Add a custom field with the type Lookup.
bb.. Select DM Activity Log as the object.
cc.. Enable field-level security Distributed Marketing users.
DM tracking is enabled automatically for the first send for each connected campaign or quick send. DM
tracking is manually enabled on a connected campaign or quick send by clicking the quick send CTA and
enabling tracking. If the journey version is updated for the connected DM journey, it attempts to enable
tracking again for the latest version.
In some cases, IERs are sent to Sales and Service Cloud without the DM activity ID. To resolve this issue,
select Request Tracking Immediately in the Triggered Send object in Marketing Cloud Connect. There
might be delays in sendLog for higher volume sends.
88

=== PAGE 93 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Create a Dashboard for Distributed Marketing Engagement Tracking
To enable reporting on individual email results (IERs) with Distributed Marketing (DM) activity log data,
create a custom report type with IERs and DM Activity Logs.
11.. Create a custom report type with DM Activity Logs as the primary object.
22.. Add IERs as the secondary object.
33.. You can also create custom report types that have Quick Send Messages with DM Activity Logs with
IERs, or other related lookups to DM Activity Logs.
Enable Send Scheduling
Allow business users to schedule single and bulk send Quick Send messages for a future time and date.
Messages are scheduled and sent in the running user’s time zone. Messages must be scheduled at least 5
minutes in the future and can be canceled up to 5 minutes before the send.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To enable send scheduling DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
Considerations:
•
Send scheduling can’t be enabled if manual approvals are enabled and vice versa.
•
Campaign sends can’t be scheduled.
•
Users can’t have more than 25,000 messages scheduled for the same date and time. If more than
25,000 messages are scheduled for the same date and time, the send fails.
•
If a custom send cap is defined, the sends are deducted at the time of scheduling. If the cancellation
is within the same time window as the schedule, sends that are canceled before the send are credited
back to the user.
To enable Quick Send scheduling, follow these steps:
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to App Launcher.
22.. Search for and select Distributed Marketing Administration.
33.. In the Send Scheduling section, enable send scheduling.
Example
11.. A user has a cap of 10 sends per day. At 8:00 AM on Day 1, the user schedules 10 sends. The user
can schedule more sends at 12:01 AM on Day 2.
22.. A user has a cap of 10 sends per day. At 8:00 AM on Day 1, the user schedules 10 sends. The user
cancels 5 sends at 2:00 PM. The user can now schedule or initiate up to 5 sends before 12:01 AM
89

=== PAGE 94 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
on Day 2.
33.. A user has a cap of 10 sends per day. At 8:00 AM on Day 1, the user schedules 10 sends for 3:00
PM Day 3. The user can’t schedule or initiate any sends until 12:01 AM on Day 2. At 8:00 AM on
Day 2, the user schedules 10 more sends for 3:00 PM on Day 3. Now the user can’t schedule or
initiate any sends until 12:01 AM on Day 3. At 8:00 AM on Day 3, the user schedules 5 more
sends for 3:00 PM Day 3. At 3:00 PM, 25 messages are sent. The user can schedule or initiate up
to 5 more sends before 12:01 AM on Day 4.
44.. A user has a cap of 10 sends per week. At 8:00 AM on Day 1, the user schedules 10 sends. The
user can’t schedule or initiate any sends until 12:01 AM on Day 8.
55.. A user has a cap of 10 sends per week. At 8:00 AM on Day 1, the user schedules 10 sends. The
user can’t schedule or initiate any sends until 12:01 AM on Day 8. On Day 5, the user cancels 5
sends. The user can now schedule or initiate up to 5 sends before 12:01 AM on Day 8.
66.. A user has a campaign with 50,000 campaign members. The user schedules two bulk sends with
25,000 individuals each for 8:00 AM on Day 1. The send fails at the scheduled time or date.
Instead, the user can schedule one bulk send for 8:00 AM and the second bulk send for 8:30 AM.
See Also
How to Enable the Distributed Marketing Scheduled Sends Tab
Enable Segmented Sends
You can specify which users can view segmented sends within a campaign. Segmented sends were
previously the default.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To enable segmented sends: DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to App Launcher.
22.. Search for and select Distributed Marketing Administration.
33.. On the Campaign Sends page, turn on Allow permission set to control Segmented Send flow.
Segmented Send is now disabled for all users, unless they have the Distributed Marketing Segmented
Send Permission Set assigned to them.
When you enable this setting, you must assign the Distributed Marketing Segmented Permission set to
users who need access to segmented sends.
Restrict Sending
Prevent business users from temporarily using content, or retire content permanently.
90

=== PAGE 95 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To restrict sending Installed Package | DM Administrator License and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace).
Considerations:
•
You can restrict sending for Quick Send messages and for Campaigns.
•
Restrict sending by using either the active flag or a date range.
•
If business users try to choose a restricted message, they see a message that the Campaign or Quick
Send message is no longer active.
To restrict sending, follow these steps:
11.. From the App Launcher, find and select Distributed Marketing Administration.
22.. From Restrict Sending, choose what you want to restrict and how. You can use an active flag or a date
range.
Example Your organization promotes a holiday sale. The Campaign dates are October 15 to January
1. Use this feature to restrict business users from sending the content before or after these dates.
Distributed Marketing Content
Distributed Marketing allows you to extend powerful and dynamic content to distributed teams. You can
also use it to allow those teams to interact with that content safely and efficiently.
Use one or more Distributed Marketing Content Blocks alongside standard or custom content areas to
create moments of collaboration that blend seamlessly into branded email messages. For example, let a
user jazz up a holiday card with their own personal note and image, or provide some compelling context
to market update messages.
Use Distributed Marketing with AMPscript to allow users to create custom SMS messages.
Marketing teams still manage the structure of messages, ensuring that everything is cohesive, on brand,
and compliant. By augmenting this framework with collaborative content, brands are able to safely give
flexibility to distributed teams. We like to call that “flexibility within a framework”.
How you choose to use Distributed Marketing content is up to you and can evolve over time. Because
each message is independently configurable, you can start with assets you already have and up-level
them with collaboration points when it makes sense.
Note Distributed Marketing uses JavaScript ES6 to enable message personalization for business
users. Prevent Cross-Site Tracking must be disabled in Safari. Block third-party cookies must be
disabled in Chrome.
91

=== PAGE 96 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
11.. Enable Email Personalization with Distributed Marketing Content Blocks
Use Distributed Marketing Content Blocks in Marketing Cloud Engagement to create sections of
content for Distributed Marketing business users to personalize.
22.. Enable Custom SMS Messages
Add AMPscript to SMS messages to allow a user to write and send a custom SMS message through
Distributed Marketing. SMS messages are sent through journeys using the MobileConnect SMS
message activity.
33.. Personalization Data Extension
Distributed Marketing creates personalization data extensions in Marketing Cloud Engagement to
store personalization data Distributed Marketing users enter when personalizing email messages. We
automatically create a personalization data extension for you when you first connect a journey to a
campaign or enable a journey for quick send. Custom SMS messages aren’t stored here, but are
available on the journey’s event data extension.
44.. Use Legacy Personalization
You can continue to use the legacy Introduction, Conclusion, and Greeting personalization options
until End of Support is announced.
Enable Email Personalization with Distributed Marketing Content Blocks
Use Distributed Marketing Content Blocks in Marketing Cloud Engagement to create sections of content
for Distributed Marketing business users to personalize.
You can drag Distributed Marketing content blocks onto any email canvas. And you can use them with
any content block available in your Marketing Cloud Engagement account, allowing you to deliver
dynamic highly relevant content.
Note Create one or more unique blocks in an email. Don’t copy blocks in the same email or you
receive an error to remove duplicated blocks, even if you change the content in the block.
Important If the same email is used in multiple activities within a single journey, Distributed
Marketing can’t provide unique personalization per message. To provide unique personalization,
duplicate the email and use it in subsequent activities.
Note Customers can continue to use the legacy “introduction”, “conclusion”, and “greeting” text
areas.
Distributed Attachment Block
To help your Marketing Cloud business users personalize a message, they can choose their own image
using the distributed attachment block and select the attachments to use in a message.
Distributed Image Block
To help your Marketing Cloud Engagement business users personalize a message, they can choose
their own image using the distributed image block and select the image to use in a message. Options
include traditional images, offers, head shots, and more.
Distributed Plain Text Block
Give Marketing Cloud Engagement business users more flexibility when personalizing messages with
92

=== PAGE 97 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
the ability to enter plain text in a message. Use this text block to let users contextualize images and
marketing content, create their own messages and personal notes, and more.
Distributed Rich Text Block
Give Marketing Cloud Engagement business users more flexibility when personalizing messages with
the ability to enter formatted text in a message. Use this to let users contextualize images and
marketing content, create their own messages and personal notes, and more.
Distributed Phrases Block
Create a single template to reuse for similar emails with the new Phrases content block in Distributed
Marketing.
Distributed Multivariate Block
Give Marketing Cloud Engagement business users the ability to interact with content variations using
the multivariate content block. First, define a variable and up to 12 value options for the variable.
Then, use the variable in your email AMPscript to define content variations, similar to dynamic
content. Business users select from the options you define.
Reference a Distributed Marketing Content Block
You can use Distributed Marketing content blocks as reference blocks. Reference blocks allow
marketers to create a content block one time, and then use it again in multiple emails. When you
change the content block, emails referencing that content block are automatically updated.
See Also
Personalization with AMPscript
Add a Distributed Marketing Content Block Package
Use Legacy Personalization
Distributed Attachment Block
To help your Marketing Cloud business users personalize a message, they can choose their own image
using the distributed attachment block and select the attachments to use in a message.
To use attachments, enable them in Your Marketing Cloud account. After they’re enabled, update the
connection information in the Distributed Marketing admin page.
Add a Distributed Marketing Attachment Block
Follow these steps to add the Distributed Marketing attachment block to Content Builder.
Add a Distributed Marketing Attachment Block to an Email Template
Add a Distributed Marketing attachment block to an email template so that business users can choose
the attachments used in the email.
Add a Distributed Marketing Attachment Block
Follow these steps to add the Distributed Marketing attachment block to Content Builder.
93

=== PAGE 98 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
To use attachments, enable them in Your Marketing Cloud Engagement account. After they’re enabled,
update the connection information in the Distributed Marketing admin page.
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To add the Distributed Marketing Text Block: Installed Package | Administer permission.
11.. In Marketing Cloud Engagement, navigate to Setup.
22.. Select Apps under Platform Tools.
33.. Select Installed Packages.
44.. Select the Distributed Marketing Package.
55.. Select Add Component.
66.. Select Custom Content Block.
77.. Select Next.
88.. Name the block.
99.. Add a description, such as Allow DM business users to attach files.
1100.. Click the appropriate link. A window opens showing the URL you must copy and paste into your
browser.
aa.. If your organization uses Hyperforce, use this link: https://distributed-marketing-content-
blocks.s1.marketingcloudapps.com/attachment-block/v1/
bb.. If your organization doesn't use Hyperforce, use this link: https://distributed-marketing-
content-blocks.{{stackKey}}.marketingcloudapps.com/attachment-block/v1/
Add a Distributed Marketing Attachment Block to an Email Template
Add a Distributed Marketing attachment block to an email template so that business users can choose
the attachments used in the email.
11.. In Content Builder, drag the attachment block onto the canvas. Only one attachment block can be
added to an email.
22.. For Guidance Message, enter the message shown to business users while personalizing the content.
33.. To choose attachments that users can select from when editing the email, click Browse.
44.. Select at least one attachment to make available.
55.. Click Select.
66.. To add more attachments for users to choose from, select Add Attachments.
77.. You can add up to 20 attachments per block. The max size for each attachment is 5 MB. Up to 5
default attachments can be selected.
Note The number of attachments that can be sent depends on the total size of the attachments.
The max total attachment size is 20 MB.
94

=== PAGE 99 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Distributed Image Block
To help your Marketing Cloud Engagement business users personalize a message, they can choose their
own image using the distributed image block and select the image to use in a message. Options include
traditional images, offers, head shots, and more.
Keep these design considerations in mind:
•
Distributed Marketing only supports HTTPS images. Configure your custom hosting domain to serve
up HTTPS secured links.
•
Images default to scale-to-fit, centered in the block area. This setting can't be modified.
Note There's a known issue where Outlook doesn't respect scale-to-fit and displays an image's
true dimension.
•
The first image in the block is the default image, which is used when the business user doesn’t specify
a different image.
•
Users who provide a custom image via a URL can define a custom redirect link URL. The redirect opens
when the recipient clicks the image.
•
If the admin enables this option, users can add images from their computer.
Image Content Block Options
Admins can set up an image library for users to choose from up to 12 images. Or, to add their own,
they can use a URL or upload an image from their computer.
Add a Distributed Marketing Image Block
Follow these steps to add the Distributed Marketing image block to Content Builder.
Add a Distributed Marketing Image Block to an Email Template
Add a Distributed Marketing image block to an email template so that business users can choose the
image used in the email. You can define up to 12 images per block area for business users to select
from in the Image Library. At least one image must be defined. You can also let users add their own
image using a URL or by uploading an image from their computer.
Image Content Block Options
Admins can set up an image library for users to choose from up to 12 images. Or, to add their own, they
can use a URL or upload an image from their computer.
In Salesforce, navigate to the Image Block for a message. Choose either Image Library, URL, or Local.
Choose Image Library:
11.. Click Library.
22.. Select one of the available images from the dropdown menu. An admin can provide up to 12.
Choose URL:
11.. Click URL.
22.. Paste the URL into the text box.
95

=== PAGE 100 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
33.. Choose whether to link to the URL when the image is clicked.
Choose Local
11.. Click Local.
22.. Click Browse and locate the image on your computer. We recommend limiting the image size to about
3 MB.
33.. The Upload Image window appears. Drag the red corner dots to crop the image.
44.. Click Upload.
Note Image processing can take up to one minute. You see a message that the upload was
successful and to wait while the image is published.
Add a Distributed Marketing Image Block
Follow these steps to add the Distributed Marketing image block to Content Builder.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To add the Distributed Marketing Image Block Installed Package | Administer permission
11.. In Marketing Cloud Engagement, navigate to Setup.
22.. Select Apps under Platform Tools.
33.. Select Installed Package.
44.. Select the Distributed Marketing Package, such as Distributed Marketing.
55.. Select Add Component.
66.. Select Custom Content Block.
77.. Select Next.
88.. Name the block, such as Distributed Image.
99.. Add a description, such as Allow DM business users to enter images.
1100.. Click the appropriate link. A window opens showing the URL you must copy and paste into your
browser.
aa.. If your organization uses Hyperforce, use this link: https://distributed-marketing-content-
blocks.s1.marketingcloudapps.com/image-block/v1/
bb.. If your organization doesn't use Hyperforce, use this link: https://distributed-marketing-
content-blocks.{{stackKey}}.marketingcloudapps.com/image-block/v1/
See Also
Distributed Plain Text Block
Add a Distributed Marketing Image Block to an Email Template
Add a Distributed Marketing image block to an email template so that business users can choose the
image used in the email. You can define up to 12 images per block area for business users to select from
96

=== PAGE 101 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
in the Image Library. At least one image must be defined. You can also let users add their own image
using a URL or by uploading an image from their computer.
11.. In Content Builder, drag the image block onto the canvas.
22.. In Guidance Message, provide a message shown to business users while personalizing content.
33.. To let users provide their own image using a URL, select Allow users to provide their own image from
a URL.
44.. Allow users to provide their own image from a local storage location.
55.. To choose an image that users can select from when editing the email, click Browse. At least one
image is required.
66.. Select the image you want to make available.
77.. Click Select.
88.. In Selection Name, name the image.
99.. In Alternate Text, enter the text to show for accessibility readers or if the image doesn’t display.
1100.. In Link URL, enter the URL to open if the image is clicked.
1111.. To add more images for users to choose, select Add Image. You can add up to 12 images per block.
See Also
Distributed Marketing Plain Text Block
Distributed Marketing Rich Text Block
Distributed Plain Text Block
Give Marketing Cloud Engagement business users more flexibility when personalizing messages with the
ability to enter plain text in a message. Use this text block to let users contextualize images and
marketing content, create their own messages and personal notes, and more.
Add a Distributed Marketing Text Block
Follow these steps to add the Distributed Marketing text block to Content Builder.
Add a Distributed Marketing Plaintext Block to an Email Template
Add a plaintext block to your email templates so that users can enter custom plaintext.
Add a Distributed Marketing Text Block
Follow these steps to add the Distributed Marketing text block to Content Builder.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To add the Distributed Marketing Text Block: Installed Package | Administer permission.
To prevent marketers from sending emails with empty text blocks, navigate to Compliance & Approvals in
Administration and enable the Prevent Empty Text Blocks feature.
11.. In Marketing Cloud Engagement, navigate to Setup.
97

=== PAGE 102 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
22.. Select Apps under Platform Tools.
33.. Select Installed Packages.
44.. Select the Distributed Marketing Package, such as Distributed Marketing.
55.. Select Add Component.
66.. Select Custom Content Block.
77.. Select Next.
88.. Name the block, such as Distributed Text.
99.. Add a description, such as Allow DM business users to enter text.
1100.. Click this link. A window opens showing the URL you must copy and paste into your browser.
aa.. If your organization uses Hyperforce, use this link: https://distributed-marketing-content-
blocks.s1.marketingcloudapps.com/free-text-block/v1/
bb.. If your organization doesn't use Hyperforce, use this link: https://distributed-marketing-
content-blocks.{{stackKey}}.marketingcloudapps.com/free-text-block/v1/
Add a Distributed Marketing Plaintext Block to an Email Template
Add a plaintext block to your email templates so that users can enter custom plaintext.
11.. In Content Builder, drag the block onto the canvas.
22.. For Guidance Message, enter the message shown to business users while personalizing content.
33.. For Selection Name, name the text area.
44.. In Character Limit, enter the maximum number of characters the user can enter in the text block.
See Also
Distributed Marketing Image Block
Distributed Marketing Rich Text Block
Distributed Rich Text Block
Give Marketing Cloud Engagement business users more flexibility when personalizing messages with the
ability to enter formatted text in a message. Use this to let users contextualize images and marketing
content, create their own messages and personal notes, and more.
Add A Distributed Marketing Rich Text Block
Follow these steps to add the Distributed Marketing rich text block to Content Builder.
Add a Distributed Marketing Rich Text Block to an Email Template
Add a rich text block to your email template so that business users can enter formatted text, including
apply bold, italic, or underline formatting, set the justification, and embed hyperlinks.
Add A Distributed Marketing Rich Text Block
Follow these steps to add the Distributed Marketing rich text block to Content Builder.
98

=== PAGE 103 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To add the Distributed Marketing Rich Text Block: Installed Package | Administer permission.
11.. In Marketing Cloud Engagement, navigate to Setup.
22.. Select Apps under Platform Tools.
33.. Select Installed Package.
44.. Select the Distributed Marketing Package, such as Distributed Marketing.
55.. Select Add Component.
66.. Select Custom Content Block.
77.. Select Next.
88.. Name the block. For example: Distributed Rich Text.
99.. Add a description. For example: Allow DM business users to enter formatted text.
1100.. Click the appropriate link. A window opens showing the URL you must copy and paste into your
browser.
aa.. If your organization uses Hyperforce, use this link: https://distributed-marketing-content-
blocks.s1.marketingcloudapps.com/rich-text-block/v1/
bb.. If your organization doesn't use Hyperforce, use this link: https://distributed-marketing-
content-blocks.{{stackKey}}.marketingcloudapps.com/rich-text-block/v1/
See Also
Distributed Image Block
Distributed Plain Text Block
Add a Distributed Marketing Rich Text Block to an Email Template
Add a rich text block to your email template so that business users can enter formatted text, including
apply bold, italic, or underline formatting, set the justification, and embed hyperlinks.
11.. In Content Builder, drag the rich text block onto the canvas.
22.. For Guidance Message, enter the message shown to business users while personalizing content .
33.. For Selection Name, name the text area .
44.. In Character Limit, enter the maximum number of characters the user can enter in the text block.
See Also
Distributed Image Block
Distributed Plain Text Block
Distributed Phrases Block
Create a single template to reuse for similar emails with the new Phrases content block in Distributed
Marketing.
Add a Distributed Marketing Phrases Block
99

=== PAGE 104 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Add a phrase block to Content Builder so that users can enter custom phrases.
Add a Distributed Marketing Phrase Block to an Email Template
Add a phrase block to your email template
Add a Distributed Marketing Phrases Block
Add a phrase block to Content Builder so that users can enter custom phrases.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To add the Distributed Marketing Phrases Block Installed Package | Administer permission
11.. In Marketing Cloud Engagement, go to Setup.
22.. Under Platform Tools, select Apps.
33.. Select Installed Package.
44.. Select the Distributed Marketing Package.
55.. Select Add Component.
66.. Select Phrases Block, and click Next.
77.. Name the block, such as Distributed Phrase.
88.. Add a description, such as Allow DM business users to enter phrases.
99.. Click the link, and copy the appropriate URL into your browser.
••
If your organization uses Hyperforce, use this link: https://distributed-marketing-content-
blocks.s1.marketingcloudapps.com/phrases-block/v1/
••
If your organization doesn't use Hyperforce, use this link: https://distributed-marketing-
content-blocks.{{stackKey}}.marketingcloudapps.com/phrases-block/v1/
Add a Distributed Marketing Phrase Block to an Email Template
Add a phrase block to your email template
11.. In Content Builder, drag the Phrases block onto the canvas.
22.. In Guidance Message, enter a message to business users while personalizing the content.
33.. To provide a phrase that users can select when editing the email, click Browse. At least one phrase is
required.
44.. Select the phrase you want to make available.
55.. Click Select.
66.. In Selection Name, name the phrase.
77.. Enter the maximum number of characters that the user can enter in the Phrases block.
88.. To add more phrases for users to choose, select Add Phrase. You can add up to 12 phrases per block.
Distributed Multivariate Block
Give Marketing Cloud Engagement business users the ability to interact with content variations using the
100

=== PAGE 105 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
multivariate content block. First, define a variable and up to 12 value options for the variable. Then, use
the variable in your email AMPscript to define content variations, similar to dynamic content. Business
users select from the options you define.
Here are examples of how you can use the multivariate content block.
•
Subject Line options: Provide your business users with different subject line options.
•
Singular or Plural emails: If your organization has individual users and teams of users, you can create a
single email template that has a singular and a plural version of the email’s body copy. For example,
one version can say, I hope. And another version can say, We hope. Then, users can pick which version
to send based on whether they’re acting alone or as part of a team.
•
Language: Provide your business users with a list of supported languages so they can choose the
email’s language for an individual or a group of individuals.
•
Tone: Your organization favors using locked down content over user-created content, but your business
users still want some control over the voice and tone of the content they send. Create different
versions of email body copy to provide some flexibility without risking brand or legal compliance, such
as a formal version, a brief version, and a friendly version.
Add a Distributed Marketing Multivariate Block
Follow these steps to add the Distributed Marketing multivariate block to Content Builder.
Add a Distributed Marketing Multivariate Block to an Email Template
Add a multivariate block with up to 12 options to your email templates so that business users can
choose between content variations.
Add a Distributed Marketing Multivariate Block
Follow these steps to add the Distributed Marketing multivariate block to Content Builder.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To add the Distributed Marketing Multivariate Installed Package | Administer permission
Block
11.. In Marketing Cloud Engagement, navigate to Setup.
22.. Select Apps under Platform Tools.
33.. Select Installed Package.
44.. Select the Distributed Marketing Package, such as Distributed Marketing.
55.. Select Add Component.
66.. Select Custom Content Block.
77.. Select Next.
88.. Name the block, such as Distributed Content Variations.
99.. Add a description, such as Allow DM business users to choose from content variations.
1100.. Click this link. A window opens showing the URL you must copy and paste into your browser.
aa.. If your organization uses Hyperforce, use this link: https://distributed-marketing-content-
101

=== PAGE 106 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
blocks.s1.marketingcloudapps.com/message-settings-block/v1/
bb.. If your organization doesn't use Hyperforce, use this link: https://distributed-marketing-
content-blocks.{{stackKey}}.marketingcloudapps.com/message-settings-block/v1/
Add a Distributed Marketing Multivariate Block to an Email Template
Add a multivariate block with up to 12 options to your email templates so that business users can choose
between content variations.
11.. In Content Builder, drag a Distributed Multivariate block onto the canvas.
22.. Enter a selection name.
33.. Enter a guidance message, if applicable.
44.. Enter the variable name. Variable names can be 50 alphanumeric characters with no spaces or special
characters.
55.. Provide at least two options for the business user. Options can contain a maximum of 80 characters.
66.. Click Done Editing. The variable is now available for use in AMPscript throughout the content.
Tip Define Multivariate blocks before the variable is used in the content. As a best practice, place
all multivariate blocks at the top of the email.
Example Your organization wants to provide its business users with a blank Happy Birthday email
using Quick Send. Instead of using a single subject line, you can provide the users with subject line
options. You can also add free-form text to your subject line by clicking the Free-Form Text option.
First, create the email in Content Builder and drag a Distributed Marketing Multivariate block on the
canvas. Configure it with something like the following:
•
Selection Name: Subject Line
•
Guidance Message: Select the subject line for this email
•
Variable Name: customSubjectLine
•
Option 1: Happy Birthday!
•
Option 2: It’s Your Special Day!
•
Option 3: Enjoy this birthday treat on us!
Then, in the subject line, enter AMPscript using your new variable instead of a static subject line. For
example, %%=v(@customSubjectLine)=%%.
Reference a Distributed Marketing Content Block
You can use Distributed Marketing content blocks as reference blocks. Reference blocks allow marketers
to create a content block one time, and then use it again in multiple emails. When you change the
content block, emails referencing that content block are automatically updated.
For example, if you create a Distributed Marketing Image Block that contains a full-color and gray-scale
version of your logo, you can reference that block on all Distributed Marketing content. To update your
logo for a holiday, update the Distributed Marketing Content Block one time, and all content referencing
102

=== PAGE 107 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
that block automatically has the updated logo.
Follow these steps to use a content block as a reference block.
11.. In Content Builder, drag the Reference Content Block to a content area.
22.. Click the block to edit.
33.. Select a Distributed Marketing Content Block.
44.. Click Select.
55.. Click Done Editing or Save.
Enable Custom SMS Messages
Add AMPscript to SMS messages to allow a user to write and send a custom SMS message through
Distributed Marketing. SMS messages are sent through journeys using the MobileConnect SMS message
activity.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To enable a custom SMS message: Access to App Builder or Experience Builder
Considerations:
•
Custom SMS messages are available in all Quick Send workflows except Quick Send Bulk Send where
SMS isn’t supported.
•
The default maximum character limit is 160. You can configure this limit to up to 500 characters in
Settings.
•
Distributed Marketing is optimized for GSM characters only. Distributed Marketing doesn’t
programmatically prevent users from entering or sending non-GSM characters. However, the
maximum character count doesn’t automatically update to reflect new character limits per message. If
a user includes non-GSM characters, up to three messages can be sent.
To enable a custom SMS message, configure an SMS message activity with the following settings in
Journey Builder:
11.. In Message Definition, enter this AMPscript in the message:
%%[Set @smsValue = AttributeValue("smsValue")]%%%%=v(@smsValue)=%%
22.. In Delivery Options, select the Send only to contacts who are subscribed currently subscriber option-
in option.
33.. Finish creating the SMS activity.
Note smsValue must be included in the journey’s entry event data extension.
See Also
103

=== PAGE 108 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Create Entry Event Data Extension
Create the SMS Activity in Journey Builder
Personalization Data Extension
Distributed Marketing creates personalization data extensions in Marketing Cloud Engagement to store
personalization data Distributed Marketing users enter when personalizing email messages. We
automatically create a personalization data extension for you when you first connect a journey to a
campaign or enable a journey for quick send. Custom SMS messages aren’t stored here, but are available
on the journey’s event data extension.
You can find these data extensions in a folder nested under your root Data Extension folder. The folder is
named Distributed Marketing <sfOrgId> Data Extensions, where <sfOrgId> equals your Org ID. For
example, Distributed Marketing 00D1I000002xfLyUAI Data Extensions. By default, these data
extensions don’t include a retention policy.
Each journey has a unique personalization data extension named
PersonalizationDE_<sfOrgId>_<journeyId>. For example,
PersonalizationDE_00D560000004xlfEAA_f960e193-c696-4247-8cba-ea6b83cc891c. If this data
extension is deleted or renamed, an error message displays stating that we can’t locate the data
extension. If a connected campaign is modified to connect to a different journey, the personalization
data extension for the newly connected journey is used. If the data extension doesn’t exist, a new one is
created.
Each row in the personalization data extension contains one piece of personalization data per recipient,
per running user. For example, you select a unique image for two members in a Journey with ID 1234
from Org ID ABC. Two rows are then created in the data extension called PersonalizationDE_ABC_1234
in the folder Distributed Marketing ABC Data Extensions.
Each data extension row contains two columns, id and value:
id value
Description Identifies what variable it is, such Contains the personalized
as hero_image, and is a content.
combination of the
CampaignMemberId, emailID,
and blockId. For example,
00v1F000000Im0MQAS19059in
tro.
Primary Key Yes No
Type Text Text
Length 100 4000
Nullable No No
104

=== PAGE 109 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Use Legacy Personalization
You can continue to use the legacy Introduction, Conclusion, and Greeting personalization options until
End of Support is announced.
Important Support of legacy personalization options ends when the Distributed Marketing content
blocks reach feature parity. We don’t recommend using legacy personalization on any new content
created. End of Support is announced on normal release communications.
Important If you’re using legacy personalization, corresponding profile attributes must still be used.
Enable Legacy Personalization
Use this procedure if you need to use the previous Introduction and Conclusion personalization
methods. These methods will eventually be discontinued. We recommend using Distributed Marketing
Content Blocks.
Update Content with Personalization AMPscript
Add AMPscript to messages in Marketing Cloud Engagement to create sections of content for standard
Distributed Marketing users to personalize, such as greeting, introduction, and conclusion.
See Also
Use Distributed Marketing Content Blocks
Enable Legacy Personalization
Use this procedure if you need to use the previous Introduction and Conclusion personalization
methods. These methods will eventually be discontinued. We recommend using Distributed Marketing
Content Blocks.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To enable legacy personalization: DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
11.. In Salesforce, from the App Launcher, find and open Distributed Marketing Administration.
22.. In the Legacy Personalization section, enable Legacy Personalization.
Update Content with Personalization AMPscript
Add AMPscript to messages in Marketing Cloud Engagement to create sections of content for standard
Distributed Marketing users to personalize, such as greeting, introduction, and conclusion.
Important If the same email is used in multiple activities within a single journey, Distributed
105

=== PAGE 110 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Marketing can’t provide unique personalization per message. To provide unique personalization,
duplicate the email and use it in subsequent activities.
11.. To create an introduction for personalization, enter this AMPscript in the email:
%%[
Set @sfOrgId = sfOrgId
Set @intro = intro
Set @objectId = IIF(EMPTY(sfCampaignMemberId), id, sfCam
paignMemberId)
Set @journeyId = RegExMatch(journeyId,"(^[0-9a-f]{8}-
[0-9a-f]{4}-[1-5][0-9a-f]{3}-[89ab][0-9a-f]{3}-[0-9a-f]{12}$)",1)
Set @personalizeDE = Concat("PersonalizationDE", "_" ,
@sfOrgId, "_", @journeyId)
Set @personalizeId = Concat(@objectId,_emailId,"intro")
IF EMPTY(@intro) THEN
set @introMsg = Lookup(@personalizeDE,"value","id",@pers
onalizeId)
ELSE THEN
set @introMsg = @intro
ENDIF
]%%
%%=v(@introMsg)=%%
22.. To create a conclusion for personalization, enter this AMPscript in the email:
%%[
Set @sfOrgId = sfOrgId
Set @closing = closing
Set @objectId = IIF(EMPTY(sfCampaignMemberId), id, sfCam
paignMemberId)
Set @journeyId = RegExMatch(journeyId,"(^[0-9a-f]{8}-
[0-9a-f]{4}-[1-5][0-9a-f]{3}-[89ab][0-9a-f]{3}-[0-9a-f]{12}$)",1)
Set @personalizeDE = Concat("PersonalizationDE", "_" ,
@sfOrgId, "_", @journeyId)
Set @personalizeId = Concat(@objectId,_emailId,"closin
g")
IF EMPTY(@closing) THEN
set @closingMsg = Lookup(@personalizeDE,"value","id",@pe
rsonalizeId)
ELSE THEN
set @closingMsg = @closing
106

=== PAGE 111 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
ENDIF
]%%
%%=v(@closingMsg)=%%
33.. To enable greeting for personalization, enter this AMPscript in the email: %%greeting%%
See Also
Introduction to AMPscript
Enhance Distributed Marketing
Enhance Distributed Marketing functionality to fit your company’s needs. To extend the message
personalization flow, create custom personalization interactions. Extend the Distributed Marketing
payload to include more data for journey decisions, content personalization, and more.
Add Custom Personalization Interactions
The Distributed Marketing personalization flow includes these interaction tabs: Edit and Send Settings.
Add one or more interaction tabs for more complex use cases, such as carbon copying or sending to
alternate email addresses. To extend Distributed Marketing interactions, create a custom external
integration Lightning component, register it with Distributed Marketing, and name the new tab in
Distributed Marketing Administration.
Add Custom Personalization Interactions for Bulk Sends
You can make custom personalization interaction tabs available in the Bulk Send workflow, including
Auto Send. To extend Distributed Marketing interactions, create an Apex class. Then register the new
Apex class, a custom interaction Lightning component, with Distributed Marketing. Optionally, name
the new tab in Distributed Marketing Administration. Custom personalization interactions can be
approved individually or for all quick sends.
Extend Entry Source Data
Distributed Marketing includes a standard set of fields used to populate the associated journey's entry
source data extension. You can add fields to the standard set to include data from contact or lead
objects. When a campaign member is approved through Distributed Marketing or when a Quick Send
message is sent, the values of the additional data fields for the underlying contact or lead are added to
the entry source data extension in Marketing Cloud Engagement. Use this data for Marketing Cloud
Engagement journey decisions, content personalization, and more.
Add Custom Personalization Interactions
The Distributed Marketing personalization flow includes these interaction tabs: Edit and Send Settings.
Add one or more interaction tabs for more complex use cases, such as carbon copying or sending to
alternate email addresses. To extend Distributed Marketing interactions, create a custom external
integration Lightning component, register it with Distributed Marketing, and name the new tab in
Distributed Marketing Administration.
107

=== PAGE 112 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To add custom personalization interactions: DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
All Custom Personalization Interactions can add and modify the same custom data properties for each
member. Two separate custom tabs can overwrite each other if you save changes using the same data
properties. This can cause conflicts or, if intentional, can enable multiple tabs to work together.
11.. Configure an External Integration Component
The first step to create an interaction in Distributed Marketing is to configure an external integration
component. Your component works with Distributed Marketing as follows.
22.. Register Component with Distributed Marketing
After building the external integration component for the new interaction tab, register your
component with Distributed Marketing. This registration allows Distributed Marketing to render your
custom interaction within the personalization modal. Insert a
mcdm_15__JourneyApprovalsPlugin__c record for the external integration component.
33.. Name the Custom Tab
To complete the setup of your new personalization interaction in Distributed Marketing, name the
custom tab for the component you created and registered. If you don’t name the tab, the tab name
defaults to More.
44.. Remove a Custom Personalization Interaction
To remove your custom interaction from the personalization modal in Distributed Marketing, delete
the registered external integration component.
55.. Custom Personalization Interaction Examples
Use these common use case examples to guide your custom personalization interaction setup in
Marketing Cloud Engagement.
See Also
Components
Configure an External Integration Component
The first step to create an interaction in Distributed Marketing is to configure an external integration
component. Your component works with Distributed Marketing as follows.
11.. When the personalization window is loaded, Distributed Marketing calls an interface method on the
integration component with the list of selected members.
22.. Standard Distributed Marketing users interact with the external integration component as you define.
For example, select a value from a pick list populated with available alternate email addresses.
33.. The external integration component can fire an event anytime with custom data for individual
campaign members. To set custom data for multiple members, multiple events can fire.
Your custom component must be flagged as global and implement the
108

=== PAGE 113 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
mcdm_15:MessagePersonalizationHandler interface.
To use this interface, create an Aura.Action attribute named personalizationReadyHandler with
a default method to capture the list of selected members when the personalization window loads. Each
selected member object contains properties such as the campaign member’s name and ID. Your
component can use these properties to further customize your user experience.
<aura:component access="GLOBAL" implements="mcdm_15:MessagePersonalizationHand
ler">
<aura:attribute
access="GLOBAL"
name="personalizationReadyHandler"
type="Aura.Action"
default="{!c.messagePersonalizationReady}"
/>
Hello, world!
</aura:component>
This example controller method accepts the list of selected pending campaign members and sets
custom data for each member by firing an mcdm_15:JourneyApprovalsDataProvided event for
each one. Each approved member’s record in the associated journey’s event data extension receives the
value bar for the custom field foo.
({
//Handler for action personalizationReadyHandler to receive member data
messagePersonalizationReady: function(component, data) {
// Get array of members (JourneyApproval objects)
var members = data.getParam('arguments').members;
// Loop through each member
members.forEach(function(member) {
// Get, configure and Fire an event (e.mcdm_15:JourneyApprovalsDat
aProvided)
// with updated custom data for each member.
$A.get('e.mcdm_15:JourneyApprovalsDataProvided')
.setParams({
id: member.campaignMemberId,
data: {
'foo' : 'bar'
}
})
.fire();
109

=== PAGE 114 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
});
}
})
This outline includes the shape of each selected member object, called a JourneyApproval object. You
can reference this data within your external integration component.
JourneyApproval: {
/**
* The ID of the Marketing Cloud Engagement Journey.
*
* @type {String}
*/
externalJourneyId,
/**
* The Salesforce ID of the associated Contact or Lead object.
*
* @type {String}
*/
objectId,
/**
* The type of Campaign Member object, e.g. Lead or Contact.
*
* @type {String}
*/
objectType,
/**
* The Salesforce ID of the associated Campaign.
*
* @type {String}
*/
campaignId,
/**
* The Salesforce ID of the associated Campaign Member
*
* @type {String}
*/
campaignMemberId,
/**
110

=== PAGE 115 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
* The first name of the associated Campaign Member.
*
* @type {String}
*/
firstName,
/**
* The last name of the associated Campaign Member.
*
* @type {String}
*/
lastName,
/**
* Maps messages to personalization values via their ID's.
*
* e.g., introduction and closing values for the message
* with ID 'abc' can be accessed on a JourneyApproval object
* using the following syntax:
* journeyApproval.messages['abc'].introduction
* journeyApproval.messages['abc'].closing
*
* @type {Object}
*/
messages,
/**
* The currently selected greeting option.
*
* This object contains the following properties:
* greeting.label - The UI display text
* greeting.value - The greeting payload
*
* @type {Object}
*/
greeting,
/**
* A map of key value pairs set by a registered
* plugin component
*
* @type {Object}
*/
customData,
111

=== PAGE 116 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
/**
* The current status (Pending, Rejected, Failed) of
* the associated Campaign Member.
*
* @type {String}
*/
status
}
See Also
Components
Register Component with Distributed Marketing
After building the external integration component for the new interaction tab, register your component
with Distributed Marketing. This registration allows Distributed Marketing to render your custom
interaction within the personalization modal. Insert a mcdm_15__JourneyApprovalsPlugin__c record
for the external integration component.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to Developer Console.
22.. Click Debug.
33.. Click Open Execute Anonymous Window.
44.. Enter this code in the window, updating c:example with the name of your component.
mcdm_15__JourneyApprovalsPlugin__c mapping = new
mcdm_15__JourneyApprovalsPlugin__c(mcdm_15__Component_Name__c='c:example');
insert mapping;
55.. Execute the code.
Name the Custom Tab
To complete the setup of your new personalization interaction in Distributed Marketing, name the
custom tab for the component you created and registered. If you don’t name the tab, the tab name
defaults to More.
11.. From the App Launcher, find and select Distributed Marketing Administration.
22.. From Configuration, in the Personalization Modal, find Customer Personalization Interactions and
provide a tab name for each registered component.
33.. Apply the changes.
Your new interaction tab is active in Distributed Marketing.
112

=== PAGE 117 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Remove a Custom Personalization Interaction
To remove your custom interaction from the personalization modal in Distributed Marketing, delete the
registered external integration component.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to Developer Console.
22.. Click Debug.
33.. Click Open Execute Anonymous Window.
44.. Enter this code in the window.
mcdm_15__JourneyApprovalsPlugin__c[] results = [SELECT mcdm_15__Component_Na
me__c FROM mcdm_15__JourneyApprovalsPlugin__c WHERE mcdm_15__Component_Nam
e__c = 'c:example'];
delete results;
55.. Execute the code.
Custom Personalization Interaction Examples
Use these common use case examples to guide your custom personalization interaction setup in
Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Example 1: Custom Subject Line
This Custom Personalization Interaction example allows a user to specify a custom subject to override
the default subject. There’s an entry for the custom subject in your Marketing Cloud Engagement Data
Extension and in your Profile Attributes. In this example we use the customSubjectLine field. In
Marketing Cloud Engagement, edit the email and select a dynamic subject. Click the lightning bolt below
the subject.
Specify a default subject and create a rule. The subject for this new rule is %%customSubjectLine%% .
Drag in the customSubjectLine profile attribute into the filters and change “is equal to” to “isn’t empty.”
Save all the changes and save the email.
customSubjectLine.cmp
<aura:component access="GLOBAL" implements="mcdm_15:MessagePersonalizationHand
ler">
<aura:attribute
access="GLOBAL"
name="personalizationReadyHandler"
type="Aura.Action"
default="{!c.messagePersonalizationReady}"
/>
113

=== PAGE 118 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
<aura:attribute name="customSubjectLine" access="private" type="String" descri
ption="Custom email subject line"/>
<aura:attribute name="selectedMembers" access="private" type="Object[]" des
cription="The currently selected object"/>
<aura:handler name="init" value="{!this}" action="{!c.init}"/>
<lightning:spinner variant="brand" size="large" aura:id="mySpinner"/>
<div class="slds-card">
<div class="slds-card__header">
<div class="slds-media slds-media_center">
<div class="slds-media__figure">
<lightning:icon iconName="custom:custom24" size="large"/>
</div>
<div class="slds-media__body">
<p class="slds-text-heading_small">Custom subject line demo
component</p>
<p>Every change fires a <span class="slds-theme_shade">mcd
m_15:JourneyApprovalsDataProvided</span> event</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="slds-card__body slds-card__body_inner">
<div>
<p class="slds-text-title slds-text-align_center">'{!v.selected
Members.length}' user(s) selected</p>
</div>
<div class="slds-m-around_medium">
<lightning:input class="slds-m-bottom_small" label="Custom Subj
ect Line" value="{!v.customSubjectLine}" onchange="{!c.handleInputChanged}"/>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</aura:component>
customSubjectLineController.js
({
init: function(cmp) {
cmp.set('v.selectedMembers', []);
},
// Handler called when component is ready and receives a list of
// members being personalized including all relevant information
// required to customize member personalization
114

=== PAGE 119 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
messagePersonalizationReady: function(cmp, event) {
var selectedMembers = event.getParam('arguments').members;
cmp.set('v.selectedMembers', selectedMembers);
if (selectedMembers.length) {
// In this example, the custom subject applies to all members
// so we can grab the customData from the first member
var data = selectedMembers[0].customData || {};
cmp.set('v.customSubjectLine', data.customSubjectLine || '');
}
var spinner = cmp.find('mySpinner');
$A.util.addClass(spinner, 'slds-hide');
},
// Handles changes to the text field (Subject)
// On each key down, this handler will store the custom
// subject changes in each members custom data
handleInputChanged: function(cmp) {
var data = {
customSubjectLine: cmp.get('v.customSubjectLine')
};
var selectedMembers = cmp.get('v.selectedMembers'),
id,
dataProvidedEvent;
// Loop through each member and fire an event to update its custom
// data with the new changes
selectedMembers.forEach(function(member) {
dataProvidedEvent = $A.get('e.mcdm_15:JourneyApprovalsDataProvide
d');
// Depending on whether we're dealing with a campaign or quick send
// use the campaignMemberId or fallback to the objectId which will
// be present in all other cases.
id = member.campaignMemberId || member.objectId;
dataProvidedEvent.setParams({
id: id,
data: data
});
dataProvidedEvent.fire();
});
}
})
Example 2: Custom Send From (Team Sending)
115

=== PAGE 120 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
This Custom Personalization Interaction example allows a user to change who the email is coming from
by specifying a member of the same group.
Create an apex class to retrieve the group members.
GroupMemberController.apxc
public with sharing class GroupMembersController {
@AuraEnabled
public static List<User> getGroupMembers() {
String currentUser = UserInfo.getUserId();
GroupMember myGroup = [SELECT GroupId FROM GroupMember WHERE UserOrGrou
pId = :currentUser];
List<User> groupMembers = [
SELECT Name, Email from User WHERE Id in (SELECT userorgroupid from
groupmember where group.Id = :myGroup.GroupId)
];
return groupMembers;
}
}
sendFromGroupMember.cmp
<aura:component access="GLOBAL" implements="mcdm_15:MessagePersonalizationHand
ler" controller="GroupMembersController">
<aura:attribute access="GLOBAL" name="personalizationReadyHandler" type="Au
ra.Action" default="{!c.messagePersonalizationReady}"/>
<aura:attribute name="selectedMembers" access="private" type="Object[]" des
cription="The currently selected object"/>
<aura:attribute name="groupMembers" access="private" type="List" descriptio
n="List of group members"/>
<aura:attribute name="sendFromValue" access="private" type="Integer" defaul
t="" description="Value of selected send from" />
<aura:handler name="init" value="{!this}" action="{!c.init}"/>
<lightning:spinner variant="brand" size="large" aura:id="mySpinner"/>
<div class="slds-card">
<div class="slds-card__header">
<div class="slds-media slds-media_center">
<div class="slds-media__figure">
<lightning:icon iconName="custom:custom24" size="large"/>
</div>
<div class="slds-media__body">
116

=== PAGE 121 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
<p class="slds-text-heading_small">Send From Group Member D
emo</p>
<p>Every change fires a <span class="slds-theme_shade">mcd
m_15:JourneyApprovalsDataProvided</span> event</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="slds-card__body slds-card__body_inner">
<div>
<p class="slds-text-title slds-text-align_center">'{!v.selected
Members.length}' user(s) selected</p>
</div>
<div class="slds-m-around_medium">
<lightning:select aura:id="selectGroupMembers" class="slds-m-bo
ttom_small" name="selectGroupMembers" label="Send From Group Member" valu
e="{!v.sendFromValue}" onchange="{!c.handleSelectChanged}">
<option value="">-- None --</option>
<aura:iteration items="{!v.groupMembers}" var="member">
<option value="{!_index}" text="{!member.Name}"></optio
n>
</aura:iteration>
</lightning:select>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</aura:component>
sendFromGroupMemberController.js
({
init: function(cmp, event, helper) {
cmp.set('v.selectedMembers', []);
},
// Handler called when component is ready and receives a list of
// members being personalized including all relevant information
// required to customize member personalization
messagePersonalizationReady: function(cmp, event, helper) {
var selectedMembers = event.getParam('arguments').members;
cmp.set('v.selectedMembers', selectedMembers);
helper.fetchGroupMembers(cmp)
.then(function(groupMembers) {
if (selectedMembers.length) {
// In this example, the custom subject applies to all members
117

=== PAGE 122 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
// so we can grab the customData from the first member
var data = selectedMembers[0].customData || {};
// Go through group members update selected value if a value
// was previously selected
for (var i=0; i<groupMembers.length; i++) {
if (groupMembers[i].Email == data.customSendFromEmail) {
cmp.find("selectGroupMembers").set("v.value", i);
}
}
}
var spinner = cmp.find('mySpinner');
$A.util.addClass(spinner, 'slds-hide');
});
},
// Handles changes to send from group member drop down
// and updates all members custom data
handleSelectChanged: function(cmp, event) {
var members = cmp.get('v.groupMembers'),
selectedMembers = cmp.get('v.selectedMembers'),
id,
dataProvidedEvent,
value = cmp.find('selectGroupMembers').get('v.value'),
data;
if (value != "") {
cmp.set('v.sendFromValue', value);
data = {
customSendFromEmail: members[value].Email,
customSendFromName: members[value].Name
};
} else {
data = {};
}
// Loop through each member and fire an event to update its custom
// data with the new changes
selectedMembers.forEach(function(member) {
dataProvidedEvent = $A.get('e.mcdm_15:JourneyApprovalsDataProvide
d');
// Depending on whether we're dealing with a campaign or quick send
// use the campaignMemberId or fallback to the objectId which will
// be present in all other cases.
118

=== PAGE 123 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
id = member.campaignMemberId || member.objectId;
dataProvidedEvent.setParams({
id: id,
data: data
});
dataProvidedEvent.fire();
});
}
})
sendFromGroupMemberHelper.js
({
// Fetches members in the same group as the logged in user and returns
// a promise.
// https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.lightning.meta/lightni
ng/js_promises.htm
fetchGroupMembers : function(cmp) {
return new Promise($A.getCallback(function(resolve, reject) {
var action = cmp.get('c.getGroupMembers');
action.setCallback(this, function(response) {
if (!cmp.isValid() || response.getState() !== 'SUCCESS') {
reject(response.getError());
} else {
cmp.set('v.groupMembers', response.getReturnValue());
resolve(response.getReturnValue());
}
});
$A.enqueueAction(action);
}));
}
})
Example 3: Modify Specific Members
This Custom Personalization Interaction example allows a user to customize different values for each
member.
modifySpecificMember.cmp
<aura:component access="GLOBAL" implements="mcdm_15:MessagePersonalizationHand
ler">
<aura:attribute access="GLOBAL" name="personalizationReadyHandler" type="Au
ra.Action" default="{!c.messagePersonalizationReady}"/>
<aura:attribute name="selectedMembers" access="private" type="Object[]" des
119

=== PAGE 124 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
cription="The currently selected object"/>
<aura:attribute name="selectedMemberIndex" access="private" type="Integer"
default="null" description="Index of the selected member"/>
<aura:attribute name="selectedMemberId" access="private" type="String" desc
ription=""/>
<aura:attribute name="selectedMemberData" access="private" type="String" de
scription="Custom data for member"/>
<aura:handler name="init" value="{!this}" action="{!c.init}"/>
<lightning:spinner variant="brand" size="large" aura:id="mySpinner"/>
<div class="slds-card">
<div class="slds-card__header">
<div class="slds-media slds-media_center">
<div class="slds-media__figure">
<lightning:icon iconName="custom:custom24" size="large"/>
</div>
<div class="slds-media__body">
<p class="slds-text-heading_small">Modify specific members
demo</p>
<p>Every change fires a <span class="slds-theme_shade">mcd
m_15:JourneyApprovalsDataProvided</span> event</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="slds-card__body slds-card__body_inner">
<div>
<p class="slds-text-title slds-text-align_center">'{!v.selected
Members.length}' user(s) selected</p>
</div>
<div class="slds-m-around_medium">
<lightning:select aura:id="member" class="slds-m-bottom_small"
name="memberCustom" label="member custom data" onchange="{!c.handleMemberChang
ed}" value="{!v.selectedMemberIndex}">
<option value="">Select a member</option>
<aura:iteration items="{!v.selectedMembers}" var="member">
<option value="{!_index}" text="{!member.firstName + '
' + member.lastName}"></option>
</aura:iteration>
</lightning:select>
<aura:if isTrue="{!not(empty(v.selectedMemberId))}">
120

=== PAGE 125 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
<lightning:input class="slds-m-bottom_small" label="Custom
Member Data" value="{!v.selectedMemberData}" onchange="{!c.handleInputChange
d}"/>
</aura:if>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</aura:component>
modifySpecificMemberController.js
({
init: function(cmp, event, helper) {
cmp.set('v.selectedMembers', []);
},
// Handler called when component is ready and receives a list of
// members being personalized including all relevant information
// required to customize member personalization
messagePersonalizationReady: function(cmp, event) {
var selectedMembers = event.getParam('arguments').members;
cmp.set('v.selectedMembers', selectedMembers);
var spinner = cmp.find('mySpinner');
$A.util.addClass(spinner, 'slds-hide');
},
// Handle change in member list drop down. Restore previously saved
// custom data for member. Display text input box for selected
// member.
handleMemberChanged: function(cmp, event) {
var selectedMemberIndex = parseInt(cmp.get('v.selectedMemberIndex'));
var selectedMembers = cmp.get('v.selectedMembers');
if(!isNaN(selectedMemberIndex)) {
// Set member id (contact or campaignMemberId)
cmp.set('v.selectedMemberId', selectedMembers[selectedMemberInde
x].campaignMemberId || selectedMembers[selectedMemberIndex].objectId);
// Check if we've previously stored custom data for member. if so,
restore it
if (selectedMembers[parseInt(selectedMemberIndex)].customData.custo
mValue != undefined) {
cmp.set('v.selectedMemberData', selectedMembers[selectedMemberI
ndex].customData.customValue);
} else {
121

=== PAGE 126 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
cmp.set('v.selectedMemberData', "");
}
} else {
cmp.set('v.selectedMemberIndex', null);
cmp.set('v.selectedMemberId', "");
}
},
// Handles changes to member custom data. Fired every change
handleInputChanged: function(cmp, event) {
var dataProvidedEvent = $A.get('e.mcdm_15:JourneyApprovalsDataProvide
d');
var selectedMembers = cmp.get('v.selectedMembers');
var selectedMemberId = cmp.get('v.selectedMemberId');
var selectedMemberIndex = parseInt(cmp.get('v.selectedMemberIndex'));
// Also store local value so we can repopulate field if we change
// members without reloading the CPI. Fired events store the
// members custom data outside the CPI context and is only retrieved
// on component load.
selectedMembers[selectedMemberIndex].customData.customValue = cmp.ge
t('v.selectedMemberData');
dataProvidedEvent.setParams({
id: selectedMemberId,
data: {
customValue: cmp.get('v.selectedMemberData')
}
});
dataProvidedEvent.fire();
}
})
Add Custom Personalization Interactions for Bulk Sends
You can make custom personalization interaction tabs available in the Bulk Send workflow, including
Auto Send. To extend Distributed Marketing interactions, create an Apex class. Then register the new
Apex class, a custom interaction Lightning component, with Distributed Marketing. Optionally, name the
new tab in Distributed Marketing Administration. Custom personalization interactions can be approved
individually or for all quick sends.
122

=== PAGE 127 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To add custom personalization interactions for DMAdministrator License permission set and
Bulk Sends: Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
The Custom Personalization Interaction for Bulk Send workflow accepts input on the front end using a
customer-defined Lightning Component. This front-end input gets passed to the back end in the
customer-defined Apex class. Implement the Apex class in the Distributed Marketing (mcdm_15)
BulkSendPlugin interface. After the CPI component is registered as a Bulk Send Plugin, it processes on
the back end even when no input is provided on the front end. The customer’s defined class determines
how to process the data. Back-end processing executes in the order that the CPI components are
registered. Each successive component processing class can access the previously processed data.
Create an Apex Class to Process Custom Personalization Information Input
For every Custom Personalization Interaction component that’s registered, you must provide an Apex
class, which implements the Distributed Marketing (mcdm_15) BulkSendPlugin interface.
Configure an External Integration Component for Bulk Sends
To create an interaction for bulk sends in Distributed Marketing, configure an external integration
component.
Register Component with Distributed Marketing for Bulk Sends
To see your component on the personalization window, register your Custom Integration Component
with Distributed Marketing after building it.
Custom Personalization Interaction Examples for Bulk Sends
Use these common use case examples to guide your custom personalization interaction setup for bulk
sends.
Create an Apex Class to Process Custom Personalization Information Input
For every Custom Personalization Interaction component that’s registered, you must provide an Apex
class, which implements the Distributed Marketing (mcdm_15) BulkSendPlugin interface.
The Apex class you create must be global, and it must implement this getBulkSendPluginData method:
global static Map<String, Map<String, String>>
getBulkSendPluginData(List<mcdm_15.JourneyApproval> approvals
Map<String, String> pluginData)
This method takes a list of JourneyApproval objects and a map of the input plugin data. You then decide
how to process that data. Here are some examples.
•
You can have multiple CPI plugin components registered, each one using a different Apex class for
processing.
•
CPI plugins process in the order they’re registered.
123

=== PAGE 128 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
•
Each successive plugin has access to the processed value of the previous plugin. Therefore, you can
build on the processed custom plugin data with each plugin in the chain.
•
The same getBulkSendPluginData method is called when the Bulk Send or Auto Send job processes
and when the personalization preview appears during the Bulk Send workflow. Currently, there’s no
preview for the bulk custom plugin during an Auto Send workflow.
•
Don’t execute DML in this method. If you do, it breaks the Bulk Send workflow.
•
Governor limits apply. Bulk sends are batched in up to 500 members per batch. You can execute SOQL
calls in this method, but they must be bulkified as in these examples.
•
To avoid governor limit exceptions, use the Apex Limits class. Limits.getQueries() and
Limits.getLimitQueries() help you determine if particular limits are close. We provide a custom
exception called mcdm_15.BulkSendCustomPluginException that can be used from this method.
Error messages for this exception show on the personalization preview or the Bulk Send job or Auto
Send job details after processing.
•
If a governor limit is thrown during processing, the job fails. We have a transaction Finalizer that runs at
the end of a Bulk Send or Auto Send job. If an error is found, the error message appears on the job
details. The status for all relevant campaign members is reset to allow for resending, and you receive a
notification in your org.
Configure an External Integration Component for Bulk Sends
To create an interaction for bulk sends in Distributed Marketing, configure an external integration
component.
Your Custom Personalization Interaction component must have its controller set to an Apex class name
that implements the BulkSendPlugin interface for back-end processing. See “BulkSendPluginImplOne” in
the <aura:component> in the code.
<aura:component access="GLOBAL" implements="mcdm_15:MessagePersonalizationHand
ler" controller="BulkSendPluginImplOne">
<aura:attribute access="GLOBAL" name="personalizationReadyHandler" type="A
ura.Action" default="{!c.messagePersonalizationReady}"/>
<aura:attribute name="foo1" access="private" type="String" description="Va
riable foo1"/>
<aura:attribute name="selectedMembers" access="private" type="Object[]" de
scription="The currently selected object"/>
<aura:handler name="init" value="{!this}" action="{!c.init}"/>
<lightning:spinner variant="brand" size="large" aura:id="mySpinner"/>
<div class="slds-card">
<div class="slds-card__header">
124

=== PAGE 129 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
<div class="slds-media slds-media_center">
<div class="slds-media__figure">
<lightning:icon iconName="custom:custom24" size="large"/>
</div>
<div class="slds-media__body">
<p class="slds-text-heading_small">Bulk Plugin One - foo
1</p>
<p>Every change fires a <span class="slds-theme_shade">mcd
m_15:JourneyApprovalsDataProvided</span> event</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="slds-card__body slds-card__body_inner">
<div>
<p class="slds-text-title slds-text-align_center">'{!v.selecte
dMembers.length}' user(s) selected</p>
</div>
<div class="slds-m-around_medium">
<lightning:input class="slds-m-bottom_small" label="foo1" valu
e="{!v.foo1}" onchange="{!c.handleInputChanged}"/>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</aura:component>
Input from the Custom Personalization Interaction component is tracked differently depending on the
workflow. In Bulk Send for Campaign or Bulk Send for Quick Send List View, the CPI input is tracked as
part of the customData on the selectedMember record. Auto Send has no selectedMember records in
context, so CPI input is tracked in a separate customData parameter.
({
init: function(cmp) {
cmp.set('v.selectedMembers', []);
},
messagePersonalizationReady: function(cmp, event) {
var selectedMembers = event.getParam('arguments').members;
var customData = event.getParam('arguments').customData;
cmp.set('v.selectedMembers', selectedMembers);
if (selectedMembers.length) {
var data = selectedMembers[0].customData || {};
cmp.set('v.foo1', data.foo1 || '');
125

=== PAGE 130 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
} else if (customData != null) {
var data = customData.autosend || {};
cmp.set('v.foo1', data.foo1 || '');
}
var spinner = cmp.find('mySpinner');
$A.util.addClass(spinner, 'slds-hide');
},
handleInputChanged: function(cmp) {
var data = {
foo1: cmp.get('v.foo1')
};
var selectedMembers = cmp.get('v.selectedMembers'),
id,
dataProvidedEvent;
if (selectedMembers.length) {
selectedMembers.forEach(function(member) {
dataProvidedEvent = $A.get('e.mcdm_15:JourneyApprovalsDataProv
ided');
id = member.campaignMemberId || member.objectId;
dataProvidedEvent.setParams({
id: id,
data: data
});
dataProvidedEvent.fire();
});
} else {
dataProvidedEvent = $A.get('e.mcdm_15:JourneyApprovalsDataProvide
d');
dataProvidedEvent.setParams({
id: 'autosend',
data: data
});
dataProvidedEvent.fire();
}
}
})
Register Component with Distributed Marketing for Bulk Sends
To see your component on the personalization window, register your Custom Integration Component
126

=== PAGE 131 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
with Distributed Marketing after building it.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to Developer Console.
22.. Click Debug.
33.. Click Open Execute Anonymous Window.
44.. Enter this code in the window, updating c:BulkPluginOne with the name of your component and
updating c:BulkSendPluginImp with the name of your Apex class. To designate this plugin as
available for Bulk Send and Auto Send workflows, ensure that mcdm_15__IsBulkSendPlugin__c is
set to true.
SObject mapping = new mcdm_15__JourneyApprovalsPlugin__c(
mcdm_15__Component_Name__c='c:BulkPluginOne',
mcdm_15__ApexClassName__c = 'BulkSendPluginImplOne',
mcdm_15__IsBulkSendPlugin__c = true);
insert mapping;
55.. Execute the code.
Custom Personalization Interaction Examples for Bulk Sends
Use these common use case examples to guide your custom personalization interaction setup for bulk
sends.
Example 1: Custom Subject Line with Title
This Bulk Send Custom Personalization Interaction example allows a user to specify a custom subject to
override the default subject. This example includes adding the first name, last name, and title for the
contacts or leads to the custom subject. There’s an entry for the custom subject in your Marketing Cloud
Engagement Data Extension and in your Profile Attributes. In this example, we use the
customSubjectLine field.
In Marketing Cloud Engagement, edit the email and select a dynamic subject. Click the lightning bolt
below the subject. Specify a default subject and create a rule. The subject for this new rule is
%%customSubjectLine%% . Drag the customSubjectLine profile attribute into the filters and change “is
equal to” to “isn’t empty.” Save all the changes and save the email.
In this example, the Apex class is BulkSendCustomTitleCPI.cls.
// This plugin assumes a column is created on the DM Entry Source DE with "cus
tomSubjectLine"
// It returns a Map<String, Map<String, String>> which is the approval.objectI
d mapped to the key / value pairs
// that belong to your CPI, and the keys should map to DE Entry Source DE colu
127

=== PAGE 132 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
mns if you add more.
global class BulkSendCustomTitleCPI implements mcdm_15.BulkSendPlugin {
global static Map<String, Map<String, String>> getBulkSendPluginData(Lis
t<mcdm_15.JourneyApproval> approvals, Map<String, String> pluginData) {
Map<String, Map<String, String>> IdsToCustomData = new Map<String, Ma
p<String, String>>();
Map<String, String> processedCustomData = new Map<String, String>();
// Custom data passed in from front end component
String key = 'customSubjectLine';
// Here we get the title map from the contact / lead in context for ea
ch approval in the approvals list
processedCustomData = getTitle(approvals);
if (pluginData.size() > 0 && pluginData.get(key) != null && pluginDat
a.get(key) != '') {
for (mcdm_15.JourneyApproval approval : approvals) {
Map<String, String> titleMap = new Map<String, String>();
// Here we build the custom title which is title of the contac
t / lead + first name + last name + the value passed in from front end compone
nt
// ex: Doctor John Doe, We are happy to have you!
// Doctor is the title of John Doe contact
// "We Are happy to have you!" is the custom text passed in
titleMap.put(key, processedCustomData.get(approval.objectId) +
' ' + approval.campaignMemberFields.get('FirstName') + ' ' + approval.campaign
MemberFields.get('LastName') + ', ' + pluginData.get(key));
IdsToCustomData.put(approval.objectId, titleMap);
}
} else {
// If no input is provided from the front end component, show a de
fault title
for (mcdm_15.JourneyApproval approval : approvals) {
Map<String, String> titleMap = new Map<String, String>();
titleMap.put(key, 'No Input from Bulk CPI');
IdsToCustomData.put(approval.objectId, titleMap);
}
}
// Return a map of approval object IDs to the custom data map of custo
mSubjectLine -> value
return IdsToCustomData;
}
128

=== PAGE 133 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
// In this example, we get the title for each contact
private static Map<String, String> getTitle(List<mcdm_15.JourneyApproval>
approvals) {
Map<String, String> approvalsToTitle = new Map<String, String>();
List<String> contactIds = new List<String>();
List<String> leadIds = new List<String>();
// Get the contact and lead IDs from the JourneyApproval records passe
d in
for (mcdm_15.JourneyApproval approval : approvals) {
if (approval.objectType == Schema.SObjectType.Contact.getName()) {
contactIds.add(approval.objectId);
} else if (approval.objectType == Schema.SObjectType.Lead.getNam
e()) {
leadIds.add(approval.objectId);
}
}
if (contactIds.size() > 0) {
if (Limits.getQueries() == Limits.getLimitQueries()) {
// Example of throwing a custom exception to handle govener li
mits in this custom plugin class
throw new mcdm_15.BulkSendCustomPluginException('SOQL limit of
' + Limits.getLimitQueries() + ' reached.');
}
// Get the title and return the map of contactId to title
List<Contact> contacts = [SELECT Id, Title FROM Contact WHERE Id I
N :contactIds];
for (Contact contact : contacts) {
approvalsToTitle.put(contact.Id, contact.Title == null ? '' :
contact.Title);
}
}
if (leadIds.size() > 0) {
if (Limits.getQueries() == Limits.getLimitQueries()) {
// Example of throwing a custom exception to handle govener li
mits in this custom plugin class
throw new mcdm_15.BulkSendCustomPluginException('SOQL limit of
' + Limits.getLimitQueries() + ' reached.');
}
129

=== PAGE 134 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
// Get the title and return the map of contactId to title
List<Lead> leads = [SELECT Id, Title FROM Lead WHERE Id IN :leadId
s];
for (Lead lead : leads) {
approvalsToTitle.put(lead.Id, lead.Title == null ? '' : lead.T
itle);
}
}
return approvalsToTitle;
}
}
Here, the Aura Component is BulkSendCustomTitleCPI.cmp.
<aura:component access="GLOBAL" implements="mcdm_15:MessagePersonalizationHand
ler" controller="BulkSendCustomTitleCPI">
<aura:attribute access="GLOBAL" name="personalizationReadyHandler" type="A
ura.Action" default="{!c.messagePersonalizationReady}"/>
<aura:attribute name="customSubjectLine" access="private" type="String" de
scription="Custom subject line used in bulk CPI logic"/>
<aura:attribute name="selectedMembers" access="private" type="Object[]" de
scription="The currently selected member"/>
<aura:handler name="init" value="{!this}" action="{!c.init}"/>
<lightning:spinner variant="brand" size="large" aura:id="mySpinner"/>
<div class="slds-card">
<div class="slds-card__header">
<div class="slds-media slds-media_center">
<div class="slds-media__figure">
<lightning:icon iconName="custom:custom24" size="large"/>
</div>
<div class="slds-media__body">
<p class="slds-text-heading_small">Bulk CPI - Custom subje
ct demo</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="slds-card__body slds-card__body_inner">
<div>
<p class="slds-text-title slds-text-align_center">'{!v.selecte
dMembers.length}' user(s) selected</p>
</div>
<div class="slds-m-around_medium">
<lightning:input class="slds-m-bottom_small" label="customSubj
130

=== PAGE 135 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
ectLine" value="{!v.customSubjectLine}" onchange="{!c.handleInputChanged}"/>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</aura:component>
Here, the Aura Component Controller is BulkSendCustomTitleCPI.js.
({
init: function(cmp) {
cmp.set('v.selectedMembers', []);
},
messagePersonalizationReady: function(cmp, event) {
var selectedMembers = event.getParam('arguments').members;
var customData = event.getParam('arguments').customData;
cmp.set('v.selectedMembers', selectedMembers);
if (selectedMembers.length) {
var data = selectedMembers[0].customData || {};
cmp.set('v.customSubjectLine', data.customSubjectLine || '');
} else if (customData != null) {
var data = customData.autosend || {};
cmp.set('v.customSubjectLine', data.customSubjectLine || '');
}
var spinner = cmp.find('mySpinner');
$A.util.addClass(spinner, 'slds-hide');
},
handleInputChanged: function(cmp) {
// Get the data set from the component in the modal to pass to the
// apex class for bulk send CPI, this will be appended to the logic
// performed in the apex class.
var data = {
customSubjectLine: cmp.get('v.customSubjectLine')
};
var selectedMembers = cmp.get('v.selectedMembers'),
id,
dataProvidedEvent;
if (selectedMembers.length) {
selectedMembers.forEach(function(member) {
131

=== PAGE 136 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
dataProvidedEvent = $A.get('e.mcdm_15:JourneyApprovalsDataProv
ided');
// Handles campaign vs quick send object IDs for preview updat
es
id = member.campaignMemberId || member.objectId;
dataProvidedEvent.setParams({
id: id,
data: data
});
dataProvidedEvent.fire();
});
} else {
dataProvidedEvent = $A.get('e.mcdm_15:JourneyApprovalsDataProvide
d');
// Supports autosend flow
dataProvidedEvent.setParams({
id: 'autosend',
data: data
});
dataProvidedEvent.fire();
}
}
})
Register using this anonymous Apex code.
SObject mapping = new mcdm_15__JourneyApprovalsPlugin__c(
mcdm_15__Component_Name__c='c:BulkSendCustomTitleCPI',
mcdm_15__ApexClassName__c = 'BulkSendCustomTitleCPI',
mcdm_15__IsBulkSendPlugin__c = true);
insert mapping;
Extend Entry Source Data
Distributed Marketing includes a standard set of fields used to populate the associated journey's entry
source data extension. You can add fields to the standard set to include data from contact or lead
objects. When a campaign member is approved through Distributed Marketing or when a Quick Send
message is sent, the values of the additional data fields for the underlying contact or lead are added to
the entry source data extension in Marketing Cloud Engagement. Use this data for Marketing Cloud
Engagement journey decisions, content personalization, and more.
Supported objects include Contact, Lead, Account (Person Account), Campaign, Case, Opportunity, and
132

=== PAGE 137 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Quick Send (API name for quick send mcdm_15__QuickSendJourney__c) related to the send, and Add
Campaign Member.
For example, you can personalize messages with a custom phone number from the underlying lead or
contact. Add the custom field to the Distributed Marketing payload by following these steps for each
object.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to Setup.
22.. Open Developer Console.
33.. Click Debug.
44.. Click Open Execute Anonymous Window.
55.. Copy and paste the following Apex code. For mcdm_15__DestinationName__c, enter the name of
the new data extension column as it appears in Marketing Cloud Engagement. For
mcdm_15__ObjectName__c, enter the name of the underlying object containing the data. For
mcdm_15__SourceName__c, enter the API name of the object field you'd like to add to your data
extension.
mcdm_15__PersonalizationFieldMap__c personalizationFieldMap = new mcd
m_15__PersonalizationFieldMap__c (
mcdm_15__DestinationName__c='[Custom DE Column]',
mcdm_15__ObjectName__c='[Lead or Contact]',
mcdm_15__SourceName__c='[API Name of Field on Lead or Contact]'
);
insert personalizationFieldMap;
66.. Execute the code.
77.. In Marketing Cloud Engagement Contact Builder, locate the entry source data extension for the
journey.
88.. Add corresponding fields to the entry source data extension.
You can use the data in Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Example For example, to include a custom phone number field companyContactPhone__c in the
standard injection payload, this code is executed in the Developer Console and
companyContactPhone__c is added to the entry source data extension.
mcdm_15__PersonalizationFieldMap__c companyPhoneToDeColumnMapping = n
ew mcdm_15__PersonalizationFieldMap__c (
mcdm_15__DestinationName__c='companyPhoneNumber',
mcdm_15__ObjectName__c='Contact',
mcdm_15__SourceName__c='companyContactPhone__c'
);
133

=== PAGE 138 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
insert companyPhoneToDeColumnMapping;
A column companyPhoneNumber is added to the default Distributed Marketing personalization
table, which is used to generate the payload. When a campaign member is approved for receiving
messages, the underlying contact’s corresponding companyContactPhone__c is included in the
Distributed Marketing payload and added to the data extension in Marketing Cloud Engagement.
See Also
Entry Sources
Contact Builder in Marketing Cloud Engagement
Use Distributed Marketing
Distributed Marketing provides tools, workflows, and experiences that help you better serve and engage
your entire book of business.
Depending on how your organization configured Distributed Marketing, you can perform these tasks:
•
Send a quick, one-off email to an individual or a segment of your book of business.
•
Send multiple messages to a group of individuals without the worry of managing the touchpoint
cadence.
•
Collaborate on marketing approved content by typing your own message or choosing the image you
want to use.
Discover Distributed Marketing Content
If your organization is set up to use Content Marketplaces, you can use them to easily find assets you
can send. Each marketplace shows a collection of single messages or campaigns that you can access.
Assets are sorted by their creation date, and each marketplace displays up to 9 assets at once. You can
page through marketplaces with more than 9 assets, or select View All to see the complete list at once.
To send the message, simply click the tile.
Interact with Distributed Marketing Content
Whether you’re nurturing a lead sending a new customer a personalized welcome campaign, or just
wishing a long-time client happy birthday, Distributed Marketing provides an easy-to-use interface to
preview and send compelling emails and SMS messages. If your marketing teams have enabled
content collaboration, simply click on the areas of the content you want to interact with and make it
your own. Depending on your set-up, you can add personal notes, select the images used in email,
send on behalf of other team members, and more.
Send Distributed Marketing Content
Distributed Marketing offers different workflows designed to help you reach your customers wherever
you are in your Salesforce experience. After your marketing team sets up the workflows that make
sense for you, use Quick Sends or Campaign Sends to send the perfect, personalized messages to your
customers.
134

=== PAGE 139 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Discover Distributed Marketing Content
If your organization is set up to use Content Marketplaces, you can use them to easily find assets you can
send. Each marketplace shows a collection of single messages or campaigns that you can access. Assets
are sorted by their creation date, and each marketplace displays up to 9 assets at once. You can page
through marketplaces with more than 9 assets, or select View All to see the complete list at once. To
send the message, simply click the tile.
Interact with Distributed Marketing Content
Whether you’re nurturing a lead sending a new customer a personalized welcome campaign, or just
wishing a long-time client happy birthday, Distributed Marketing provides an easy-to-use interface to
preview and send compelling emails and SMS messages. If your marketing teams have enabled content
collaboration, simply click on the areas of the content you want to interact with and make it your own.
Depending on your set-up, you can add personal notes, select the images used in email, send on behalf
of other team members, and more.
Edit an Email in Distributed Marketing
Follow these steps to edit an email in Distributed Marketing. Editing options become available when
your organization enables collaborative content for the email message.
Edit an SMS Message in Distributed Marketing
Follow these steps to edit an SMS message in Distributed Marketing. Editing options are available only
if your organization has enabled collaborative SMS messages.
Edit Send Settings
If your organization enables the Send Settings option, you can choose to send emails from an
individual’s record owner or from yourself. The name and email address of the user you select is visible
in preview mode, and appear in the From field in your customer’s email inbox.
Set Default Message Greeting
As a standard Distributed Marketing user, you can customize your Distributed Marketing experience by
setting a preferred default for how your campaign message recipients are greeted.
Edit an Email in Distributed Marketing
Follow these steps to edit an email in Distributed Marketing. Editing options become available when your
organization enables collaborative content for the email message.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To edit an Email in Distributed Marketing: DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
or DMStandard License permission set and
Standard permission (mcdm_15 namespace) is
135

=== PAGE 140 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
required.
11.. To enter edit mode, click the pencil icon. The preview updates, highlighting any editable areas.
22.. Click the area of the email you want to edit. The corresponding editing experience appears in the edit
pane.
33.. To preview modifications, click the eyeball icon.
44.. If your organization created a custom personalization interaction, click the plug icon. The
corresponding editing experience appears in the edit pane.
Note If you navigate from the email, modifications aren’t saved.
Edit an SMS Message in Distributed Marketing
Follow these steps to edit an SMS message in Distributed Marketing. Editing options are available only if
your organization has enabled collaborative SMS messages.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To edit an SMS message in Distributed Marketing Installed Package | Administrator permission
11.. To enter edit mode, click the pencil icon. The preview shows placeholder text.
22.. Type the SMS message you want to send in the inbox box.
33.. To preview the message, click the eyeball icon.
Edit Send Settings
If your organization enables the Send Settings option, you can choose to send emails from an individual’s
record owner or from yourself. The name and email address of the user you select is visible in preview
mode, and appear in the From field in your customer’s email inbox.
Note If you don’t see these options, your organization might have a custom solution in place.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to a Distributed Marketing send workflow.
22.. Select the Send Settings gear icon.
33.. Select an option from the Send from dropdown. This setting applies to all selected individuals.
Set Default Message Greeting
As a standard Distributed Marketing user, you can customize your Distributed Marketing experience by
setting a preferred default for how your campaign message recipients are greeted.
136

=== PAGE 141 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To set default message greeting: DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
or DMStandard License permission set and
Standard permission (mcdm_15 namespace) is
required.
Choose between greeting your recipients by their first name, full name, or other custom options that
your company allows. This setting is the default for all campaign messages. You can change the default
for individual campaigns or for individual recipients when you review them before sending.
11.. In Salesforce, from the App Launcher, find and open Distributed Marketing Settings.
Tip You can also access settings from the Campaign Messages component on a campaign record.
To set the default message greeting for all campaigns, click Global Settings. To set default
personalizations for individual campaigns, click Message Settings.
22.. Select a default setting for Greeting.
Note Selecting System Default automatically uses the default setting established by your
company.
33.. Click Apply Changes.
Send Distributed Marketing Content
Distributed Marketing offers different workflows designed to help you reach your customers wherever
you are in your Salesforce experience. After your marketing team sets up the workflows that make sense
for you, use Quick Sends or Campaign Sends to send the perfect, personalized messages to your
customers.
Quick Send
Use Quick Send to personalize and send a single message to contacts, leads, or person accounts from
throughout the Salesforce platform. Your access to email messages, SMS messages, or both depends
on your organization's configuration.
Campaign Sends
Use Campaign Sends created by your Marketing teams to send your customers single or multi-touch
engagements. Campaign Sends use data and real-time engagement feedback to send your customers
the right message at the right time. If collaborative content is enabled, you can modify content.
Personalize content for individuals or segments, preview content exactly how individuals see it in their
inbox or text message, and more.
Quick Send
Use Quick Send to personalize and send a single message to contacts, leads, or person accounts from
137

=== PAGE 142 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
throughout the Salesforce platform. Your access to email messages, SMS messages, or both depends on
your organization's configuration.
There are two types of Quick Send workflows:
11.. Audience First: Select the audience you want to target. Then, search for the content you want to send
them.
22.. Content First: Select the message you want to send. Then select the audience you want to target.
Each of the following workflows has different audience size considerations, and is designed to help you
quickly distribute content to individuals or groups.
Workflow Type Workflow Name Workflow
Audience Quick Send from Contacts, Send a message to one
Leads, and Person Accounts individual from a contact, lead,
or person account record.
Audience Quick Send from List Views Send a message to between one
and 75 individuals from a
standard or custom list view.
Audience Quick Send from Cases Send a message to the primary
contact, lead, or person account
on a case from a case record.
Audience Quick Send from Opportunities Send a message to a contact
associated with an opportunity
from an opportunity record.
Content Quick Send from Quick Send Send a message to one
Messages individual from a quick send
message record.
Content Bulk Quick Send from Quick Send a message to between one
Send Messages and 25,000 individuals from a
quick send message record.
If your organization configured collaborative content, there could be areas of the email or SMS message
you can edit and personalize. If not, some messages don’t have anything to personalize. Even if you can’t
personalize the message, you can still send it.
Send a Message from a Contact, Lead, or Person Account Record
Send a single message to an individual from a contact, lead, or person account record.
Send a Message from a List View
Send a single message to up to 75 individuals at once from a contact or lead list view.
Send a Message from a Case
Send a single message to the primary contact or lead on a Case.
138

=== PAGE 143 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Send a Message from a Quick Send Message Record
Send a single message to a single contact, lead, or person account from a Quick Send Message
Record.
Send a Message from an Opportunity Record
Send a single message from an opportunity record.
Bulk Send a Message from a Quick Send Message Record
Send a single message to up to 100,000 contacts, leads, or person accounts from any Quick Send
message record using Salesforce list views. SMS messages aren't available in Bulk Quick Send.
Bulk Send a Message from a List View
Business users can start a bulk Quick Send message directly from a contact, lead, or account list view.
List views can contain up to 100,000 recipients, and they support audience-level user personalization.
Review the Audience for a Bulk Quick Send Message
By default, you can view the first 2,000 results of a list view when you create the list view. For Bulk
Send, you can review all recipients before sending in the Bulk Send Audience component on the Bulk
Send Batch records linked to the Bulk Send Job.
View Send Errors for a Bulk Quick Send Message
If something happens to prevent Distributed Marketing from adding an individual to a journey, you
can review errors on a record-by-record basis. For example, errors can happen if an individual is
missing an email address or SMS mobile phone number.
Set Default Personalization for a Quick Send Message
Default personalizations allow you to streamline your Distributed Marketing experience by creating
default customizations for Quick Send messages. You can modify these customizations for individual
recipients before sending through any of the Quick Send workflows you can access.
Schedule a Quick Send Message
Schedule a single or bulk send Quick Send message. Messages are scheduled in your time zone and
must be scheduled at least 5 minutes in the future. You can cancel a send up to 5 minutes before the
scheduled time.
Send a Message from a Contact, Lead, or Person Account Record
Send a single message to an individual from a contact, lead, or person account record.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use Quick Send: DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
or DMStandard License permission set and
Standard permission (mcdm_15 namespace) is
required.
11.. Navigate to a contact, lead, or person account record.
22.. In the Quick Send Messages component, select a business unit.
139

=== PAGE 144 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Tip Your organization determines the business units you can access. You may not see this option.
33.. Select a message type.
Tip Your organization determines the message types you can access. You may not see this option.
44.. Search for and select a message.
55.. Click the pencil icon.
66.. Optionally, customize the message.
Note Your organization determines the content you can customize, so there’s a chance you can’t
modify some messages. You can still send the message.
77.. To send the message, click Send.
Note If your organization uses manual approvals, there’s a Submit button to click instead. Your
message sends after it’s approved
See Also
Send a Message from a List View
Send a Message from a Case
Send a Message from a Quick Send Message Record
Send a Message from an Opportunity Record
Send a Message from a List View
Send a single message to up to 75 individuals at once from a contact or lead list view.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use Quick Send: DM Administrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
or DMStandard License permission set and
Standard permission (mcdm_15 namespace) is
required.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to a contact or lead list view. All recipients that fit the specified filter criteria
appear.
22.. Select at least one recipient.
33.. Select the Send Quick Send Message quick action.
44.. Select a business unit.
Note Your organization determines the business units you can access, so it's possible you don't
see this option.
55.. Select a message type.
Note Your organization determines the message types you can access, so it's possible you don't
see this option.
140

=== PAGE 145 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
66.. Search for and select a message.
77.. Click the pencil icon.
88.. Optionally, customize the message.
Note Your organization determines the content you can customize, so it's possible you can't
modify some messages. You can still send the message.
99.. To send the message, click Send.
Note If your organization uses manual approvals, you could see a Submit button to click instead.
Your message sends after it’s approved.
See Also
Send a Message from a Contact, Lead, or Person Account Record
Send a Message from a Case
Send a Message from a Quick Send Message Record
Send a Message from an Opportunity Record
Send a Message from a Case
Send a single message to the primary contact or lead on a Case.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use Quick Send: DM Administrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
or DMStandard License permission set and
Standard permission (mcdm_15 namespace) is
required.
11.. Navigate to a case record.
22.. In the Quick Send Messages component, select a message type.
Note Your organization determines the message types you can access. You may not have this
option.
33.. Search for and select a message.
44.. Click the pencil icon.
55.. Optionally, customize the message.
Note Your organization determines the content you can customize, so there’s a chance you can’t
modify some messages. You can still send the message.
66.. To send the message, click Send.
Note If your organization uses manual approvals, there’s a Submit button to click instead. Your
message sends after it’s approved.
See Also
141

=== PAGE 146 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Send a Message from a Contact, Lead, or Person Account Record
Send a Message from a List View
Send a Message from a Quick Send Message Record
Send a Message from an Opportunity Record
Send a Message from a Quick Send Message Record
Send a single message to a single contact, lead, or person account from a Quick Send Message Record.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use Quick Send: DM Administrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
or DMStandard License permission set and
Standard permission (mcdm_15 namespace) is
required.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to a Quick Send message record.
22.. In the Audience component, select the Single Send tab.
33.. Search for and select a single contact, lead, or person account.
44.. Click the pencil icon.
55.. Optionally, customize the message.
Note Your organization determines the content you can customize, so there’s a chance you can’t
modify some messages. You can still send the message.
66.. To send the message, click Send.
Note If your organization uses manual approvals, there’s a Submit button to click instead. Your
message sends after it’s approved.
See Also
Send a Message from a Contact, Lead, or Person Account Record
Send a Message from a List View
Send a Message from a Case
Send a Message from an Opportunity Record
Send a Message from an Opportunity Record
Send a single message from an opportunity record.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create and save Lightning pages in the Customize Application
142

=== PAGE 147 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
Lightning App Builder:
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to an Opportunity record.
22.. In the Quick Send Messages component, select a business unit.
Note Your organization determines the business units you can access. You may not have this
option.
33.. Select a message type.
Note Your organization determines the message types you can access. You may not have this
option.
44.. Search for and select a message.
55.. Search for and select a recipient.
66.. Click the pencil icon.
77.. Optionally, customize the message.
Note Your organization determines the content you can customize, so there’s a chance you can’t
modify some messages. You can still send the message.
88.. To send the message, click Send.
Note If your organization uses manual approvals, there’s a Submit button to click instead. Your
message sends after it’s approved.
See Also
Send a Message from a Contact, Lead, or Person Account Record
Send a Message from a Case
Send a Message from a List View
Send a Message from a Quick Send Message Record
Bulk Send a Message from a Quick Send Message Record
Send a single message to up to 100,000 contacts, leads, or person accounts from any Quick Send
message record using Salesforce list views. SMS messages aren't available in Bulk Quick Send.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use Bulk Quick Send:
•
DM Administrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15
namespace) or DMStandard License permission
set and Standard permission (mcdm_15
namespace) is required.
•
DM Bulk Send permission set
143

=== PAGE 148 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
•
API Enabled system permission
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to a Quick Send message record.
22.. In the Audience component, select the Bulk Send tab.
33.. Search for and select any list view.
Tip Contact or lead list view names are prefixed with the object type. For example, Contact -
White Glove Contacts. If you’re using person accounts, you target the contact list views. Account
list views aren’t available.
44.. Click the pencil icon.
55.. Optionally, customize the message.
Note
••
Your organization determines the content you can customize, so it's possible you can't modify
certain messages. You can still send the message.
••
You can preview for the first 100 recipients.
••
Any customizations made apply to all recipients.
66.. Select Prepare Bulk Send. The system redirects you to the new Bulk Send Job record. The message is
ready to send when the system updates the Status field to Waiting.
••
If the user who prepares the send is different from the user who starts the send, the User ID stored
in the Marketing Cloud Engagement event data extension (sfUserId) is the user who prepares the
send.
••
If your organization uses the Collaborative Campaigns (Auto Send) feature, you can add up to
100,000 members for a given Auto Send campaign, or a total of 100,000 members across
campaigns scheduled at the same time by the same person. If you exceed the 100,000 member
limit, the Auto Send only sends 100,000. If your audience is greater than 100,000 members total
across multiple campaigns to send to, consider staggering the sends in 5-minute intervals.
77.. To start the send, select Start on the Bulk Send component. The send is complete when the Bulk Send
Job’s Status changes to Complete. Sending is complete when the system updates the Status field to
Complete. You can view send errors after the Bulk Send is finished
Bulk Send a Message from a List View
Business users can start a bulk Quick Send message directly from a contact, lead, or account list view. List
views can contain up to 100,000 recipients, and they support audience-level user personalization.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use Bulk Send from a List View:
•
DM Administrator License permission set and
144

=== PAGE 149 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
Administrator permission (mcdm_15
namespace) or DMStandard License permission
set and Standard permission (mcdm_15
namespace) is required.
•
DM Bulk Send permission set
•
API Enabled system permission
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to a list view.
22.. Select the Bulk Quick Send button.
33.. Select a message.
44.. Click the pencil icon.
55.. Optionally, customize the message.
Note
••
Your organization determines the content you can customize, so it's possible you can't modify
certain messages. You can still send the message.
••
You can preview for the first 100 recipients.
••
Any customizations made apply to all recipients.
66.. Select Prepare Bulk Send. The system redirects you to the new Bulk Send Job record. The message is
ready to send when the system updates the Status field to Waiting.
Note
••
If the user who prepares the send is different from the user who starts the send, the User ID
stored in the Marketing Cloud Engagement event data extension (sfUserId) is the user who
prepares the send.
••
If your organization uses the Collaborative Campaigns (Auto Send) feature, you can add up to
100,000 members for a given Auto Send campaign, or a total of 100,000 members across
campaigns scheduled at the same time by the same person. If you exceed the 100,000
member limit, the Auto Send only sends 100,000. If your audience is greater than 25000
members total across multiple campaigns to send to, consider staggering the sends in
5-minute intervals.
77.. To start the send, select Start on the Bulk Send component. The send is complete when the Bulk Send
Job’s Status changes to Complete.
Note Sending is complete when the system updates the Status field to Complete. You can view
send errors after the Bulk Send is finished.
Review the Audience for a Bulk Quick Send Message
By default, you can view the first 2,000 results of a list view when you create the list view. For Bulk Send,
you can review all recipients before sending in the Bulk Send Audience component on the Bulk Send
Batch records linked to the Bulk Send Job.
145

=== PAGE 150 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use Review the Audience: DM Administrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
or DMStandard License permission set and
Standard permission (mcdm_15 namespace) is
required.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to a Quick Send message record.
22.. Select the Bulk Send Job record in the Bulk Send Jobs component.
33.. Select the Audience tab. This tab shows groups of 500 individuals per group.
44.. Select a Bulk Send Batch records. You can view the individuals, their status, record type, email address,
and any error received while trying to add them to the journey.
Note The CSV file is also available in Notes and Attachments.
View Send Errors for a Bulk Quick Send Message
If something happens to prevent Distributed Marketing from adding an individual to a journey, you can
review errors on a record-by-record basis. For example, errors can happen if an individual is missing an
email address or SMS mobile phone number.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use Quick Send: DM Administrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
or DMStandard License permission set and
Standard permission (mcdm_15 namespace) is
required.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to a Quick Send message record.
22.. Select the Bulk Send Job record in the Bulk Send Jobs component. If there are errors, the Has Errors
checkbox is checked.
33.. In the Related List, select a Bulk Send Batch with the Has Errors checkbox checked.
44.. View any errors in the Bulk Send Batch Audience Component or in the Error Message field on the Bulk
Send Batch object.
Note After you fix the error, you can retarget the individual with the same message using another
quick send workflow. For example, using Quick Send to a contact, lead, or person account.
146

=== PAGE 151 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Set Default Personalization for a Quick Send Message
Default personalizations allow you to streamline your Distributed Marketing experience by creating
default customizations for Quick Send messages. You can modify these customizations for individual
recipients before sending through any of the Quick Send workflows you can access.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To set default personalization for a Quick Send DMAdministrator License permission set and
Message Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
or DMStandard License permission set and
Standard permission (mcdm_15 namespace) is
required.
To set a default personalization for a Quick Send message, follow these instructions.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to a Quick Send message record.
22.. In the Quick Send defaults component, click Edit.
33.. Click Save and Close when you’re finished modifying the content.
Schedule a Quick Send Message
Schedule a single or bulk send Quick Send message. Messages are scheduled in your time zone and
must be scheduled at least 5 minutes in the future. You can cancel a send up to 5 minutes before the
scheduled time.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To schedule a Quick Send message: DM Administrator and DM Administrator License
permission set or DM Standard and DM Standard
License permission
Considerations
•
You can send up to 25,000 messages for the same date and time.
•
If your organization has enabled a send cap, sends are deducted when you schedule the send.
To schedule a Quick Send message, follow these steps.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to a Distributed Marketing Quick Send workflow.
22.. Select the Send Settings gear icon.
33.. Select a date and time.
147

=== PAGE 152 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Campaign Sends
Use Campaign Sends created by your Marketing teams to send your customers single or multi-touch
engagements. Campaign Sends use data and real-time engagement feedback to send your customers
the right message at the right time. If collaborative content is enabled, you can modify content.
Personalize content for individuals or segments, preview content exactly how individuals see it in their
inbox or text message, and more.
Note If your organization uses the Collaborative Campaigns (Auto Send) feature, you can add up to
25,000 members for a given auto send campaign. Or you can add a total of 25,000 members across
campaigns scheduled at the same time by the same person. If you exceed the 25,000 member
limit, the auto send only sends 25,000.
Send a Segmented Send
Use a Segmented Send when you want more control and flexibility over your audience, content, or
both. Segmented Sends allow you to use data filters to select a subset of your entire target audience
and then personalize messages for that subset. You can also use these data filters to opt certain
individuals out of messaging without removing them from the campaign entirely. You can message
these members later or not at all.
Bulk Send a Campaign Send
Use a Bulk Campaign Send when you want to message large groups of individuals at once without
making individual modifications. You can modify content for the entire audience, and you can review
the entire audience before sending. However, you can’t personalize messages for individuals or groups.
Bulk Campaign Sends are optimized for speed, and they work best when your target audience is more
than 1,000 individuals.
Set Default Personalization for a Campaign
As a standard Distributed Marketing user, streamline your Distributed Marketing experience by
creating default customizations for message templates within specific campaigns. These
customizations can be modified for individual recipients when you review them before sending.
Send a Segmented Send
Use a Segmented Send when you want more control and flexibility over your audience, content, or both.
Segmented Sends allow you to use data filters to select a subset of your entire target audience and then
personalize messages for that subset. You can also use these data filters to opt certain individuals out of
messaging without removing them from the campaign entirely. You can message these members later or
not at all.
Example Your marketing or ops team uses business rules to pre-load campaigns for you with
qualified recipients. You just got off the phone with a longtime client and know that messaging
them right now does not make sense. You could remove them from the campaign entirely, but
segmented sends allow you to easily opt that recipient out of messaging for now.
Review Pending Campaign Members
148

=== PAGE 153 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
After contacts, leads, or person accounts are added to campaigns, review the new campaign members
and personalize messages before sending. Use data filters to personalize messages for segments of
campaign members, or select a single campaign member to make modifications for just one recipient.
Personalize Campaign Messages
As a Distributed Marketing user, you can personalize the message content for contacts, leads, or
person accounts to receive campaign messages.
Customize Pending Member Table
After contacts, leads, or person accounts are added to campaigns, standard Distributed Marketing
users review pending campaign members to personalize content and to approve or reject them for
receiving messages. You can add fields to the pending member table to provide context when
personalizing and approving campaign members. By default, the list of pending campaign members is
sorted by the creation date, which is when the member was added to the campaign.
Update Campaign Member Details
As a standard Distributed Marketing user, you review contacts, leads, or person accounts to receive
campaign messages through Distributed Marketing. Click a campaign member to view and update
their record details.
Review Pending Campaign Members
After contacts, leads, or person accounts are added to campaigns, review the new campaign members
and personalize messages before sending. Use data filters to personalize messages for segments of
campaign members, or select a single campaign member to make modifications for just one recipient.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To review pending campaign members: DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
or DMStandard License permission set and
Standard permission (mcdm_15 namespace) is
required.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to your campaign.
22.. In the Campaign Messages component, click Segmented Send.
Note If this option isn’t available, there aren’t any campaign members to review.
33.. To add columns to your Pending Member Table, click the settings gear on the table, and then click
Select Fields to Display to add, remove, or reorder accessible fields.
44.. To search, enter the first or last name of a campaign member in the Quick Search box.
55.. To sort, click the header of any field. Click the header again to reverse the sort order. Results are sorted
alphabetically or in ascending or descending order based on the field type. You can sort unencrypted
fields.
66.. To filter pending members, click the filter icon, select a campaign member field, and enter a filter
value. You can filter on unencrypted fields.
149

=== PAGE 154 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Tip To filter on multiple criteria at once, select Add Filter. Filter criteria use the AND operator.
77.. To personalize messages for campaign members, select campaign members, and click Personalize.
88.. To approve campaign members for receiving messages, select campaign members, and click Ready.
99.. To opt campaign members out of receiving messages, select campaign members, and click Reject.
Tip If you approved or rejected a campaign member and want to reset the status, select the
campaign member, and click Reset to Pending.
1100.. Click Submit Members.
Tip If your organization uses manual approvals, sometimes you see a Submit button to click
instead. Your messages send after they’re approved.
1111.. Repeat this process to message more segments.
Tip Your organization can decide how many individuals you can include in a segment, up to 500
per segment. If your total audience is more than the maximum segment size, create and submit
your first segment. You can then create a segment to personalize and submit.
See Also
Personalize Campaign Messages
Set Default Personalization for a Campaign
Personalize Campaign Messages
As a Distributed Marketing user, you can personalize the message content for contacts, leads, or person
accounts to receive campaign messages.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To personalize messages: DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
or DMStandard License permission set and
Standard permission (mcdm_15 namespace) is
required.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to a campaign.
Tip The Campaign Messages component displays all Email and Text (SMS) messages that can be
sent as part of the campaign.
••
Under Preview, Email messages display the subject line. Text (SMS) messages display the message
to send.
••
Text (SMS) messages can’t be modified.
22.. In the Campaign Messages component, click Segmented Send.
Note If View Pending Members isn’t an option, there aren’t any campaign members to review.
33.. To personalize messages for specific campaign members, select up to 500 campaign members and
150

=== PAGE 155 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
click Personalize.
44.. Click the pencil icon on the left navigation column to edit.
55.. Hover over and select any highlighted content area to edit it.
Note The personalization you enter applies to all selected campaign members.
66.. On campaigns with multiple messages, click the dropdown on the top navigation bar to select another
message.
Tip To preview your customizations without annotation, click the eye icon on the left navigation
column.
77.. Save personalization changes.
See Also
Review Pending Campaign Members
Set Default Personalization for a Campaign
Customize Pending Member Table
After contacts, leads, or person accounts are added to campaigns, standard Distributed Marketing users
review pending campaign members to personalize content and to approve or reject them for receiving
messages. You can add fields to the pending member table to provide context when personalizing and
approving campaign members. By default, the list of pending campaign members is sorted by the
creation date, which is when the member was added to the campaign.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To customize the pending member table: DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
or DMStandard License permission set and
Standard permission (mcdm_15 namespace) is
required.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to a campaign and select Segmented Send.
22.. On the Pending Member Campaign Table, click the settings gear and then click Select Fields to
Display.
33.. Move fields between Available Fields and Visible Fields using the left and right arrows.
Tip You can’t remove Created Date or Name fields, but you can change where they show up in the
table.
44.. Reorder the fields using the up and down arrows.
55.. Select Save.
See Also
Manage Custom Settings Data
151

=== PAGE 156 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
Update Campaign Member Details
As a standard Distributed Marketing user, you review contacts, leads, or person accounts to receive
campaign messages through Distributed Marketing. Click a campaign member to view and update their
record details.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To update campaign member details: DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
or DMStandard License permission set and
Standard permission (mcdm_15 namespace) is
required.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to your campaign.
22.. In the Campaign Messages component, click View Pending Members.
Note If View Pending Members isn’t an option, there aren’t any campaign members to review.
33.. To view the campaign member record details, click the name of a pending campaign member.
44.. To edit campaign member details, click next to a field.
55.. Save your changes.
66.. To view Chatter feed posts for this campaign member, click Feed.
77.. To view attachments, cases, opportunities, and more for the campaign member, click Related Lists.
88.. To return to Pending Approvals, click .
Bulk Send a Campaign Send
Use a Bulk Campaign Send when you want to message large groups of individuals at once without
making individual modifications. You can modify content for the entire audience, and you can review the
entire audience before sending. However, you can’t personalize messages for individuals or groups. Bulk
Campaign Sends are optimized for speed, and they work best when your target audience is more than
1,000 individuals.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To send a Bulk Campaign Send:
•
DMAdministrator License permission set and
Administrator permission (mcdm_15
namespace) or DMStandard License permission
set and Standard permission (mcdm_15
namespace)
152

=== PAGE 157 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Distributed Marketing
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
•
DM Bulk Send
•
API Enabled system permission
To send a Bulk Send message:
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to a Campaign record.
22.. In the Campaign Messages component, select the Bulk Send button.
Note If Bulk Send isn’t an option, there aren’t any campaign members available to send to.
33.. Optionally, customize the message.
Note
••
Your organization determines the content you can customize, so in certain cases you can't
modify some of the messages. You can still send the message.
••
You can preview for the first 100 recipients.
••
Any customizations made apply to all recipients.
••
You can customize one SMS message per campaign.
44.. Select Prepare Bulk Send. The system redirects you to the new Bulk Send Job record. The message is
ready to send when the system updates the Status field to Waiting.
Note If your organization uses the Collaborative Campaigns (Auto Send) feature, you can add up
to 100,000 members for a given Auto Send campaign, or a total of 100,000 members across
campaigns scheduled at the same time by the same person. If you exceed the 100,000 member
limit, the Auto Send only sends 100,000. If your audience is greater than 25,000 members total
across multiple campaigns to send to, consider staggering the sends in 5-minute intervals.
55.. To start the send, select Start on the Bulk Send component. The send is complete when the Bulk Send
Job’s Status changes to Complete.
Note Sending is complete when the system updates the Status field to Complete. You can view
send errors after the Bulk Send is finished.
Example You manage a large book of business and work for an organization that publishes thought
leadership articles and resources regularly. You publish a monthly newsletter that helps filter
through the noise and highlight the most relevant topics and trends. This workflow is great because
you want to reach your entire book quickly without personalizing for subsegments of individuals.
Set Default Personalization for a Campaign
As a standard Distributed Marketing user, streamline your Distributed Marketing experience by creating
default customizations for message templates within specific campaigns. These customizations can be
modified for individual recipients when you review them before sending.
153

=== PAGE 158 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To set default personalization for campaign DMAdministrator License permission set and
messages: Administrator permission (mcdm_15 namespace)
or DMStandard License permission set and
Standard permission (mcdm_15 namespace) is
required.
11.. In Salesforce, navigate to your campaign.
22.. In the Campaign Messages component, click Message Settings in the Settings menu.
Tip You can also click the eyeball icon to open up message defaults for specific messages.
33.. On the Edit tab, select a message to preview.
44.. To open a preview where editable content areas are highlighted, select Edit.
55.. Hover over and select any highlighted content area to edit it.
Tip You can modify customizations for individual campaign members when you review them
before sending.
66.. For campaigns with multiple messages, click to select another message.
77.. Save your campaign personalization defaults.
See Also
Personalize Campaign Messages
Review Pending Campaign Members
Marketing Cloud Connect
Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement combines the digital marketing capabilities
of Engagement with the data management, segmentation, and campaign management tools in
Salesforce. Create unitary customer relationships with more data-driven, personalized conversations and
the ability to automate the customer journey. With Marketing Cloud Connect, access powerful
Engagement tools directly within Sales or Service Cloud. Ensure a consistent branding and messaging
experience, while engaging customers in relevant conversations and ultimately driving more leads into
Salesforce.
Help documentation is based on the latest managed package. Learn about upgrading to Marketing
Cloud Connect.
Marketing Cloud Connect features work in Salesforce Classic. Those using Lightning Experience with
Salesforce are automatically redirected to Salesforce Classic when Marketing Cloud Connect tabs are
clicked.
Upgrade to the Latest Marketing Cloud Connect Release
To make sure that you have the most recent features and bug fixes before each release, we
154

=== PAGE 159 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
automatically update the managed package in your production org to the previously released version.
In addition, your non-production org is upgraded to the newest version when the managed package is
released. This process provides you with a full release cycle to test the new package before we auto-
update your production org.
Connect Clouds with Marketing Cloud Connect
Get familiar with requirements, install the latest managed package, and configure your Salesforce
accounts to start using Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Manage Marketing Cloud Connect Settings
Admins access Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement settings and send
configuration by navigating to the Engagement object in the Sales or Service Cloud. Admins can
configure these settings, including sends, tracking, users, and business units, after the installation and
setup process to enable sending through Marketing Cloud Connect.
Email Sends
Integrated users send Marketing Cloud Engagement emails through the Sales or Service Cloud with
Marketing Cloud Connect. Send single emails to leads, contacts, and person account records, or send
to a list through campaigns and reports.
Frequently Asked Questions
Review frequently asked questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Troubleshooting Guide
Review troubleshooting tips for Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Tutorials
Practice Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement features with these tutorials for
specific use cases.
See Also
Upgrade to Marketing Cloud Connect
Upgrade to the Latest Marketing Cloud Connect Release
Upgrade to Connected App
Connect Clouds with Marketing Cloud Connect
Marketing Cloud Connect Features
Upgrade to the Latest Marketing Cloud Connect Release
To make sure that you have the most recent features and bug fixes before each release, we automatically
update the managed package in your production org to the previously released version. In addition, your
non-production org is upgraded to the newest version when the managed package is released. This
process provides you with a full release cycle to test the new package before we auto-update your
production org.
Note These dates are subject to change. Some features are made available to your org within a
week of the release, while some fixes and enhancements are delivered between releases.
155

=== PAGE 160 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Upcoming Package Upgrades
Marketing Cloud Supported API Marketing Cloud Non-Production Production
Engagement Version Engagement Environment Environment
Release Release Date Package Upgrade Package Upgrade
Spring ’24 (248) 59.0 February March 10, 2024 March 30, 2024
16–March 8, 2024
Summer ’24 (250) 60.0 June 7–28, 2024 July 13, 2024 August 3, 2024
Winter ’25 (252) 61.0 October 5–25, October 26, 2024 April 19, 2025
2024
Spring ’25 (254) 62.0 February April 5, 2025 April 19, 2025
22–March 14,
2025
Summer ’25 (256) 63.0 June 7–July 11, July 12, 2025 July 26, 2025
2025
Winter ’26 (258) 64.0 September January 10, 2026 Excluded
12–November 1,
2025
Spring ’26 (260) 65.0 January March 7, 2026 March 21, 2026
16–February 27,
2026
Summer ’26 (262) 66.0 May 15–June 19, June 27, 2026 July 11, 2026
2026
Winter ’27 (264) 67.0 September October 24, 2026 November 7, 2026
18–October 16,
2026
Spring ’27 (266) 68.0 January March 6, 2027 March 20, 2027
15–February 26,
2027
After a major Marketing Cloud Engagement release, your developer, trial, demo, and sandbox orgs are
upgraded to the latest version. Use these orgs to test the new version before the update is applied to
your production org. The supported Salesforce API version for Marketing Cloud Connect is updated to
the next version 2–3 weeks after the Production environment package upgrade. For example, the version
supported in Summer ’25 (256) is 63.0.
If you have Salesforce admin permissions, you can manually upgrade the package by completing these
steps.
11.. Review the latest features and considerations.
22.. Install the managed package in Sales Cloud and Service Cloud.
156

=== PAGE 161 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
33.. Make sure that the IP range allowlist has up-to-date information.
We recommend that you use tenant-specific endpoints (TSEs) for all new managed package and
Marketing Cloud Connect integrations. The addresses in this document apply to only existing
customers who use legacy connections.
See Also
Marketing Cloud Release Notes
Connect Clouds with Marketing Cloud Connect
Get familiar with requirements, install the latest managed package, and configure your Salesforce
accounts to start using Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Marketing Cloud Connect is available in Salesforce Unlimited, Enterprise, Performance Editions, or
Developer Edition Sandbox. Marketing Cloud Connect is available in Marketing Cloud Core Edition,
Advanced Edition, Agency Edition, Enterprise 1.0 Lock and Publish, Enterprise 2.0 Edition, Reseller
Edition, or Marketing Cloud Sandbox.
Lightning Experience is not supported for Marketing Cloud Connect features. Those using Lightning
Experience with Salesforce are automatically redirected to Salesforce Classic when any Marketing Cloud
Connect tabs are clicked. Lightning Professional Edition is supported by Salesforce Integration V2 and
not supported by Marketing Cloud Connect. Government Cloud requires a custom installation. To
schedule, contact your account executive at least 30 days before planned installation. Marketing Cloud
Connect doesn’t support CipherCloud.
Next Topic: Review Prerequisites and Install Package
11.. Review Prerequisites and Marketing Cloud Connect Install Package
Review the system requirements and key Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement
concepts to understand user types. Choose a data access option for configuration. Install the latest
managed package and begin the setup process.
22.. Configure Marketing Cloud and Marketing Cloud Connect
The Marketing Cloud Engagement admin performs these tasks to configure Engagement for use with
Marketing Cloud Connect.
33.. Configure the CRM
The Salesforce CRM admin performs these tasks to configure Sales or Service Cloud for Marketing
Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
44.. Configure Settings
Configure Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement settings after installation and
setup.
55.. Test the Connection in Marketing Cloud Connect
Make sure that Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement is set up correctly for
sending.
66.. Upgrade to Marketing Cloud Connect
Learn the benefits of upgrading to Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement from
157

=== PAGE 162 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
an earlier version of the connector. Marketing Cloud Connect is a more efficient and effective way to
manage your connection to the Sales or Service Cloud.
77.. Disconnect Account
The ability to disconnect a Marketing Cloud Engagement account from a Sales or Service Cloud
account is only available for Enterprise 2.0, Core, and Lock & Publish accounts. Install managed
package version 5.493 or later. The account must use connected app authentication. The Engagement
admin can disconnect the accounts by editing the Salesforce Integration in the Email Studio admin.
Disconnecting takes from 5 minutes to several hours depending on the number of synchronized data
extensions. The Sales or Service Cloud admin then uninstalls the package.
88.. Authentication Between Clouds
Connected App Authentication is a secure authentication mechanism used by Marketing Cloud
Connect to connect from Marketing Cloud Engagement to Sales or Service Cloud. Now your users are
authenticated automatically without Sales or Service Cloud user password management.
Review Prerequisites and Marketing Cloud Connect Install Package
Review the system requirements and key Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement
concepts to understand user types. Choose a data access option for configuration. Install the latest
managed package and begin the setup process.
11.. Prerequisites
Review these prerequisites before installing Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud
Engagement.
22.. Install Connected App in Marketing Cloud Connect
This process is only required if your Marketing Cloud Connect tenant is deployed in Hyperforce.
33.. Marketing Cloud Connect User Types and Permissions
To use most Marketing Cloud Connect functionality, users need a license for Marketing Cloud
Engagement and a license for Sales or Service Cloud. Understand the user types and permissions
associated with Marketing Cloud Connect.
44.. Account Configuration for User Data Access
Marketing Cloud Engagement administrator and Sales or Service Cloud administrator review these
options for configuring Marketing Cloud Connect data. Choose to set the account as scope by user or
non-scope by user.
55.. Install the Marketing Cloud Connect Managed Package
Install the Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement managed package in your
account.
66.. Set Up the Salesforce System User in Marketing Cloud Connect
The Sales or Service Cloud administrator creates the Salesforce System User. This user connects the
accounts for the Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement configuration.
158

=== PAGE 163 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Prerequisites
Review these prerequisites before installing Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
•
Marketing Cloud Connect requires a relationship between a single Engagement account and one or
more Salesforce orgs. Your Engagement account must be provisioned and enabled for use with
Marketing Cloud Connect before connection.
•
Subscriber Key is required for Marketing Cloud Connect. If it isn’t enabled in your Engagement
account, complete a Subscriber Key Migration before proceeding with the connection process.
•
Ensure that four custom tabs are available in your Salesforce org.
•
To use most Marketing Cloud Connect functionality, users need an Engagement license and a Sales or
Service Cloud license.
See Also
Marketing Cloud Connect Features
Install Connected App in Marketing Cloud Connect
This process is only required if your Marketing Cloud Connect tenant is deployed in Hyperforce.
11.. Determine your Hyperforce Stack.
22.. Install the Connected App.for your Hyperforce Stack.
••
MJ401: https://login.salesforce.com/packaging/
installPackage.apexp?p0=04t8Z000000xQ2P
••
MJ402: https://login.salesforce.com/packaging/
installPackage.apexp?p0=04tHn000001eOYM
••
MJ403: https://login.salesforce.com/packaging/
installPackage.apexp?p0=04tHn000000r3s4
••
MJ406: https://login.salesforce.com/packaging/
installPackage.apexp?p0=04taj0000002mOn
33.. Log in with your Sales/Service Cloud admin credentials.
The Connected App automatically installs after you log in.
Marketing Cloud Connect User Types and Permissions
To use most Marketing Cloud Connect functionality, users need a license for Marketing Cloud
Engagement and a license for Sales or Service Cloud. Understand the user types and permissions
associated with Marketing Cloud Connect.
•
Marketing Cloud administrator
159

=== PAGE 164 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
The Engagement admin sets up and configures the Engagement account and users. This admin works
with the Salesforce CRM administrator to install and set up Marketing Cloud Connect.
•
Salesforce CRM (Sales or Service Cloud) administrator
The Sales or Service Cloud admin sets up and configures a Salesforce CRM account and users. This
admin works with an Engagement administrator to install and set up Marketing Cloud Connect.
•
Marketing Cloud Connect API user
The Marketing Cloud Connect API user completes the account-level connection between the Sales or
Service Cloud and Marketing Cloud. If possible, use a dedicated system user as the Marketing Cloud
Connect API user. If the Sales or Service Cloud org is connected to a Marketing Cloud Enterprise 2.0
account, the Marketing Cloud Connect API user’s business unit access in the Marketing Cloud
determines which business units are available for use within the Sales or Service Cloud.
•
Salesforce system user
This Sales or Service Cloud user, previously called the tracking user, is required to complete the
account-level connection between Engagement and Sales or Service Cloud. This user makes Marketing
Cloud tracking data available in CRM. This user type is exclusively for sending to CRM audiences from
Engagement in non-scope-by-user accounts. If possible, use a dedicated system user as the Salesforce
system user, which does consume a user license.
•
Marketing Cloud Connect administrator
This person manages the setup of Marketing Cloud Connect within the Sales or Service Cloud.
•
Marketing Cloud Connect user
This person accesses Marketing Cloud Connect functionality in the Sales or Service Cloud,
Engagement, or both. Access to Marketing Cloud Connect functionality in the Sales or Service Cloud is
managed through CRM permissions and page layouts. Access to Marketing Cloud Connect
functionality in Engagement is managed through Marketing Cloud Connect permissions. A license for
both Engagement and Sales or Service Cloud is required at a minimum.
•
Marketing Cloud for AppExchange Admin Permission
This Salesforce CRM admin permission lets admins view all data and send to any contact, lead,
campaign, or report.
•
Marketing Cloud for AppExchange User Permission
This non-admin permission lets Salesforce CRM users access the Marketing Cloud Connect interface,
enabling them to perform sends. If the account is configured as “scope by user,” users view and send
to only the records they own.
•
Connected App Authentication Permission
The Salesforce CRM admin creates this permission set during Marketing Cloud Connect installation
and setup. Assign this permission to all Marketing Cloud Connect users. The connected app manages
all cross-cloud authentication from Engagement into Sales or Service Cloud.
See Also
Marketing Cloud Connect Features
Account Configuration for User Data Access
160

=== PAGE 165 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Manage Users
Permission-Based Access
Account Configuration for User Data Access
Marketing Cloud Engagement administrator and Sales or Service Cloud administrator review these
options for configuring Marketing Cloud Connect data. Choose to set the account as scope by user or
non-scope by user.
These options for Marketing Cloud Connect set the level of data access for your users.
•
Non-scope by user
•
Scope by user
Understanding the important differences between the two account configuration options is critical to
determining how you want Marketing Cloud Connect to be used after installation. This option is selected
during the Marketing Cloud Connect configuration process and can be altered in the Engagement Email
Studio Setup, under Platform Tools > Apps > Salesforce Integration at any time.
Option 1: Non-Scope by User
This option configures data access on the Salesforce system user, typically an administrator. Choose this
option to allow Marketing Cloud Connect users to send to all subscribers in a report or campaign that
the Salesforce system user can access. Subscribers aren’t filtered based on the user running the report.
Examples:
•
You create a report based on My Contacts, but the Salesforce system user can’t access the contacts in
that report. The report is empty and so you can’t send to My Contacts. You don’t receive an error
message, but the subsequent email-send report shows “0” contacts sent.
•
You can access an existing report containing records shared with other users. You see only your own
records on that report. If you send to that report intending only to send to the records you see, you can
inadvertently send to other shared records.
Considerations:
•
Within Engagement, report or campaign lists aren’t limited to what is visible to the user initiating the
send.
•
Within Engagement, returned subscribers aren’t limited to what is visible to the user initiating the
send.
•
Password policies aren’t in effect, making this configuration easy to maintain because passwords don’t
expire.
•
An administrator can set up a user without entering a password.
•
You can mistakenly send to report or campaign members who aren’t visible to that user without
notice.
•
This send behavior is the default for v2 accounts, so this option is favorable for existing v2 customers
161

=== PAGE 166 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
migrating to Marketing Cloud Connect.
Option 2: Scope by User
This option configures data access on the Marketing Cloud Connect user initiating the send. Reports and
campaigns that are visible to the user are available for selection as a target audience for sending. The list
of subscribers returned is limited to what the user initiating the send has access to view.
Implications on Salesforce Data Extension Import Activities
Import Salesforce data extensions into Engagement through Interactions. Create import activities only
with Sales or Service Cloud reports you can access. For example, reports in the Engagement Admin folder
in Sales or Service Cloud aren’t available for use if you can’t access it in Engagement.
Manual and automated imports behave differently in Scope by User accounts:
•
Scope by User doesn't affect the configured backend processes for data and objects returned by
Salesforce Data Event, Sales and Service Cloud Activities in Journey Builder, and Synchronized Data
Sources.
•
Manual import activities respect scoping, so the number of records that appear in the report are
specific to the user who is running the import.
•
All automated import activities are executed as the Engagement API user. Therefore, the number of
records reflects the Salesforce system user’s level of access to data.
With non-scope by user accounts, imports return results based on the Salesforce system user’s data
access.
Install the Marketing Cloud Connect Managed Package
Install the Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement managed package in your
account.
To ensure that the managed package installs correctly, enable Custom Platform Events in your org.
If you’re upgrading Marketing Cloud Connect, review these considerations before installing the latest
managed package.
11.. Install the managed package for your account.
••
For Production accounts, install this package.
••
For Sandbox accounts, install this package.
162

=== PAGE 167 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
22.. Select which users to install the package for.
33.. Click Install.
44.. If prompted, grant access to third-party websites.
55.. Click Continue.
See Also
Graded Browser Support
Known Issue - Limit of 50 Triggered Send Executions
Set Up the Salesforce System User in Marketing Cloud Connect
The Sales or Service Cloud administrator creates the Salesforce System User. This user connects the
accounts for the Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement configuration.
The Salesforce System User, previously called the tracking user, makes Engagement tracking data
available in CRM. This user type is exclusively for sending to CRM audiences from Engagement in non-
scope-by-user accounts.
11.. In the Sales or Service Cloud, click Setup.
22.. Under Build in the Setup menu, click Customize.
33.. Click Users.
44.. Click Page Layouts and edit the user page layout.
55.. Add the Marketing Cloud for AppExchange User field and save your changes.
66.. Under Administer in the Setup menu, click Manage Users.
77.. Click Users.
88.. Create a user or update an existing user with these settings and save your changes
••
User License: Salesforce
••
Profile: System Administrator
99.. Edit the Salesforce system user.
1100.. Enable Marketing Cloud for AppExchange User.
1111.. Enable Marketing Cloud for AppExchange Admin.
1122.. Save your changes.
See Also
Marketing Cloud Connect User Types and Permissions
Configure Marketing Cloud and Marketing Cloud Connect
The Marketing Cloud Engagement admin performs these tasks to configure Engagement for use with
Marketing Cloud Connect.
163

=== PAGE 168 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Complete this next set of tasks in the installation and setup process after reviewing all prerequisites and
installing the managed package.
Confirm with your account representative that your Engagement account is provisioned and enabled for
use with Marketing Cloud Connect before connection.
11.. Use Marketing Cloud Connect to Connect Accounts
Connect your Marketing Cloud Engagement account to the corresponding Sales or Service Cloud org
at the account level to continue Marketing Cloud Connect setup.
22.. Create a Marketing Cloud API User in Marketing Cloud Connect
Create a Marketing Cloud API user in Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
33.. Connect the Marketing Cloud API User in Marketing Cloud Connect
Connect the Marketing Cloud API user to the Salesforce system user to enable core system
communication activities in Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement. These
activities include pushing tracking data from Engagement into your Sales or Service Cloud.
44.. Assign Business Units
For Marketing Cloud Engagement Enterprise 2.0 accounts, assign applicable business units to the
Marketing Cloud Engagement API user. The Marketing Cloud Connect API user’s business unit access
in Engagement determines which business units are available for use within Sales or Service Cloud.
Use Marketing Cloud Connect to Connect Accounts
Connect your Marketing Cloud Engagement account to the corresponding Sales or Service Cloud org at
the account level to continue Marketing Cloud Connect setup.
Complete the remaining authentication setup steps during the Configure CRM process to ensure that
Connected App Authentication is set up properly.
11.. Log in to the Sales or Service Cloud org that you’re connecting to Engagement using the Salesforce
system user account.
During this process, the system connects to any active Salesforce session. To prevent an incorrect
connection, log out of any active Sales or Service Cloud sessions other than the Salesforce system user
session used for this process. Closing the tab doesn’t end an active session.
22.. In a separate tab, log in to Engagement.
33.. Navigate to Email Studio.
44.. Click Admin.
55.. Click Salesforce Integration.
66.. Click Edit.
77.. Select Scope by User if applicable for your data access configuration.
88.. If prompted, click Upgrade to Connected App.
164

=== PAGE 169 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
99.. Click Connect Account.
1100.. If you aren’t logged in to the Sales or Service Cloud as your Salesforce system user in another tab,
you’re prompted to log in. Click OK and log in as the system user.
If you’re using a company-specific login URL, such as https://mycompany.my.salesforce.com,
select Use Custom Domain and enter the domain address before entering the Salesforce system user
credentials.
1111.. Click Allow to grant access for the Salesforce system user to access the Marketing Cloud account.
See Also
Account Configuration for User Data Access
Create a Marketing Cloud API User in Marketing Cloud Connect
Create a Marketing Cloud API user in Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Create the Marketing Cloud API User, which is typically a unique user that connects to the Salesforce
System User in Marketing Cloud Connect Setup.
11.. In Engagement, go to Email Studio.
22.. Click Admin.
33.. Click My Users.
44.. Click Create.
55.. Name the user to identify it easily.
66.. Enter your email address as the Reply Email and Notification Email Addresses.
77.. Enter a unique username.
88.. Leave the External ID field blank, unless required by your organization.
99.. Set a Time Zone.
1100.. Set a Culture Code.
1111.. Select API User.
1122.. Create a temporary password.
1133.. If you’re not using an Enterprise 2.0 account, set these roles and permissions on this page.
••
User Permissions: NONE
••
Marketing Cloud Permissions and Roles: NONE
••
Select Email Application
••
Select Mobile Connect if applicable
••
Select Marketing Cloud Administrator role
1144.. Save the new Marketing Cloud API user.
Note If you’re using an Enterprise 2.0 account, continue to set roles and permissions.
165

=== PAGE 170 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
1155.. Click My Users from Email Studio Admin.
1166.. Select the Marketing Cloud API User.
1177.. Click Manage Roles.
1188.. Click Edit Roles.
1199.. Assign Administrator and Market Cloud Administrator roles.
2200.. Save the roles for the Marketing Cloud API user.
Connect the Marketing Cloud API User in Marketing Cloud Connect
Connect the Marketing Cloud API user to the Salesforce system user to enable core system
communication activities in Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement. These activities
include pushing tracking data from Engagement into your Sales or Service Cloud.
11.. In Engagement, go to Email Studio.
22.. Click Admin.
33.. Expand Account Settings and click My Users.
44.. Select the API user.
55.. Click Integrate for Salesforce.com Status.
66.. Enter the Salesforce system user username.
77.. Save the settings.
88.. The Salesforce.com Status field updates to Integrated if the connection is successful.
Assign Business Units
For Marketing Cloud Engagement Enterprise 2.0 accounts, assign applicable business units to the
Marketing Cloud Engagement API user. The Marketing Cloud Connect API user’s business unit access in
Engagement determines which business units are available for use within Sales or Service Cloud.
Note If your Engagement account isn’t Enterprise 2.0, proceed to the next topic. Not sure what type
of account you have? Review Marketing Cloud Engagement editions to learn your account type or
talk to your account representative.
11.. In Engagement, go to Email Studio.
166

=== PAGE 171 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
22.. Click Admin.
33.. Click My Users.
44.. Select the Marketing Cloud Engagement API User.
55.. Click Manage Business Units at the top of the Users table.
66.. Ensure that the selection under Default Business Unit is the top-level business unit.
77.. In the Associated Business Units section, select all business units to be used with Marketing Cloud
Connect.
88.. Save the changes to the Marketing Cloud Engagement API User.
Note Repeat this process when creating business units in the future for use with Marketing Cloud
Connect.
Configure the CRM
The Salesforce CRM admin performs these tasks to configure Sales or Service Cloud for Marketing Cloud
Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Complete this next set of tasks in the installation and setup process after configuring Engagement.
11.. Set Up Connected App Authentication
Set up connected app authentication for Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
This mechanism authenticates between Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, and Engagement without
requiring you to store passwords in Engagement. It also prevents SOAP and REST API calls made by
Marketing Cloud Connect from counting against your rolling 24-hour limit.
22.. Update Field-Level Security
To send Marketing Cloud emails through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement,
you must make the email opt-out field visible on leads and contacts.
33.. Update User Page Layouts
Add email and mobile send tracking to contact and lead pages to continue configuration of Sales and
Service Cloud for Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
44.. Update Lead Page Layouts
Configure the lead page to ensure Marketing Cloud Connect users can see the relevant Marketing
Cloud Connect fields.
55.. Update Contact Page Layouts
Configure the contact page to ensure Marketing Cloud Connect users can see the relevant Marketing
Cloud Connect fields.
167

=== PAGE 172 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
66.. Launch the Setup Wizard
To configure Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement in Sales or Service Cloud,
launch the setup wizard in Salesforce Classic UI.
77.. Connect to Marketing Cloud
The Sales or Service Cloud admin connects the Sales or Service Cloud account with the Marketing
Cloud Engagement account using the Marketing Cloud API user credentials. This task completes the
account-level connection for Marketing Cloud Connect.
Set Up Connected App Authentication
Set up connected app authentication for Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
This mechanism authenticates between Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, and Engagement without requiring
you to store passwords in Engagement. It also prevents SOAP and REST API calls made by Marketing
Cloud Connect from counting against your rolling 24-hour limit.
11.. In the Sales or Service Cloud, click Setup.
22.. Under Administer, click Manage Apps.
33.. Click Connected Apps.
44.. Click Salesforce Marketing Cloud.
55.. Click Edit Policies.
66.. Under Permitted Users, select Admin approved users are pre-authorized.
77.. If a warning message appears, click OK.
88.. Under IP Relaxation, select Relax IP restrictions.
99.. Under Refresh Token Policy, select Immediately expire refresh token.
1100.. Save changes.
1111.. From Setup, click Manage Users under Administer.
1122.. Click Permission Sets.
1133.. Click New.
1144.. Give the permission set a memorable name. For example, Marketing Cloud Connected App.
1155.. Validate the generated API name and ensure that this field contains the desired value.
1166.. Save the permission set.
Apply the permission sets to the API User: Marketing Cloud Connected App, Marketing Cloud
Connector, Marketing Cloud Connector Admin, and Marketing Cloud System User.
1177.. From Setup, click Manage Users under Administer.
1188.. Click Permission Sets.
1199.. Click the name of the newly created permission.
2200.. Click Manage Assignments.
2211.. Click Add Assignments.
2222.. Select the users who need access to the connected app, typically those users who access Marketing
Cloud Connect.
2233.. Make sure that the Salesforce system user is selected for access.
2244.. Click Assign.
2255.. Click Done.
2266.. In the Sales or Service Cloud, click Setup.
2277.. Under Administer, click Manage Apps.
168

=== PAGE 173 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
2288.. Click Connected Apps.
2299.. Click Salesforce Marketing Cloud.
3300.. Click Manage Permission Sets.
3311.. Select the newly created permission set.
3322.. Save changes.
Warning During this process, the system connects to any active Engagement session to establish
the Marketing Cloud Connect API user. To prevent an incorrect connection, log out of all active
Engagement sessions. Closing the tab doesn’t end an active session.
3333.. In Sales or Service Cloud, go to the Marketing Cloud tab.
3344.. Click Connect to Marketing Cloud.
3355.. Enter the username and password for the Marketing Cloud Connect API User.
3366.. Click Login.
See Also
Marketing Cloud Connect User Types and Permissions
Test the Connection in Marketing Cloud Connect
Manage Marketing Cloud Connect Settings
Update Field-Level Security
To send Marketing Cloud emails through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement,
you must make the email opt-out field visible on leads and contacts.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, go to Setup.
22.. Click Customize under Build.
33.. Click Contacts.
44.. Click Fields.
55.. Click Email Opt Out.
66.. Click Set Field-Level Security.
77.. Enable Visibility for all applicable profiles.
88.. Save.
99.. Click Customize under Build in the Setup menu.
1100.. Click Leads.
1111.. Click Fields.
1122.. Click Email Opt Out.
1133.. Click Set Field-Level Security.
1144.. Enable Visibility for all applicable profiles.
1155.. Save.
169

=== PAGE 174 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Update User Page Layouts
Add email and mobile send tracking to contact and lead pages to continue configuration of Sales and
Service Cloud for Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
The Sales or Service Cloud admin performs this task to update the page layouts for contacts and leads to
include Marketing Cloud Connect functionality.
11.. In the Salesforce CRM org click Setup.
22.. Enter Users in the Quick Find box and select Users under Build > Customize.
33.. Click Page Layouts.
44.. Under User Page Layouts, click Edit next to User Layout.
55.. Scroll down to view the Additional Information section of the user page layout.
66.. Drag Marketing Cloud Engagement for AppExchange Admin from the palette to the Additional
Information section of the user page layout.
77.. Drag Marketing Cloud Engagement for AppExchange User to the same section.
88.. Click Save.
Note The Marketing Cloud Connect managed package includes page layout elements that are no
longer needed and can be deleted if desired.
•
@deprecated / et4ae5.Defauot_MID
•
@deprecated / et4ae5.ExactTarget_OAuth_Token
•
Default Marketing Cloud Page / et4ae5.Default_ET_Page
•
Marketing Cloud Username / et4ae5.ExactTargetUsername
•
Valid Marketing Cloud Admin / et4ae5.ExactTargetAdmin
•
Valid Marketing Cloud User / et4ae5.ExactTargetUser
See Also
Page Layouts
Update Lead Page Layouts
Configure the lead page to ensure Marketing Cloud Connect users can see the relevant Marketing Cloud
170

=== PAGE 175 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Connect fields.
The Sales or Service Cloud admin performs this task to update the page layouts for contacts and leads to
include Marketing Cloud Connect functionality.
11.. In the Salesforce CRM org click Setup.
22.. Enter Users in the Quick Find box and select Users under Build > Customize > Leads.
33.. Click Page Layouts.
44.. Under Lead Page Layout, click Edit next to Lead Layout.
55.. In the layout you selected, from the tool palette options select Related Lists.
66.. Drag Email Sends from the palette to the Additional Information section of the lead page layout to
create a new related list.
77.. Drag Individual Email Results to the same section.
88.. Select Visualforce Pages from the palette options.
99.. Drag LeadActions from the palette to the Description Information section of the Lead page.
1100.. Click Save.
1111.. Click Yes to Overwrite Users’ Related List Customizations?
Update Contact Page Layouts
Configure the contact page to ensure Marketing Cloud Connect users can see the relevant Marketing
Cloud Connect fields.
The Sales or Service Cloud admin performs this task to update the page layouts for contacts and leads to
include Marketing Cloud Connect functionality.
11.. In the Salesforce CRM org click Setup.
22.. Enter Users in the Quick Find box and select Users under Build > Customize> Contacts.
33.. Click Page Layouts.
44.. Under Lead Page Layout, click Edit next to Contact Layout.
55.. In the layout you selected, from the tool palette options select Related Lists.
66.. Drag Email Sends from the palette to the Additional Information section of the lead page layout to
create a new related list.
77.. Drag Individual Email Results to the same section.
88.. Select Visualforce Pages from the palette options.
99.. Drag ContactActions from the palette to the Description Information section of the Contact page.
1100.. Click Save.
1111.. Click Yes to Overwrite Users’ Related List Customizations?
Launch the Setup Wizard
To configure Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement in Sales or Service Cloud,
launch the setup wizard in Salesforce Classic UI.
This process launches the setup wizard to automatically add required IP addresses to the allowlist, create
required workflows, and set up new permission sets.
171

=== PAGE 176 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Important Lightning Experience doesn’t support the setup wizard.
Note Custom domains aren’t required to use the setup wizard. However, if you don’t use the setup
wizard, manually add IP Addresses to the allowlist and create workflows.
11.. In the Sales or Service Cloud Setup menu, click Security Controls under Administer.
22.. Click Session Settings.
33.. Save without changing anything.
44.. In the Sales or Service Cloud, navigate to the Marketing Cloud tab.
55.. Agree to verify the Metadata API remote site.
66.. Start the automatic setup wizard.
77.. Ensure that you completed the pre-install tasks.
88.. Agree to the terms.
99.. To run the setup wizard, click Configure Marketing Cloud Connect.
1100.. Click Okay when the wizard is complete.
Note If you couldn’t automatically verify the Metadata API remote site, follow these steps to
install the remote site manually.
1111.. In the Sales or Service Cloud Setup menu, click Security Controls under Administer.
1122.. Click Remote Site Settings.
1133.. Click New Remote Site.
1144.. Edit the new remote site with this information.
••
Remote Site Name: MetadataAPI
••
Remote Site URL: https://{domain}.salesforce.com
••
Description: Remote site setting to make callouts
1155.. Save the remote site.
Add IP Addresses to Allowlist in Marketing Cloud Connect
If you didn’t use the Marketing Cloud Connect Setup Wizard, follow these steps to manually add IP
addresses to your allowlist. The allowlist identifies them as safe and grants access to trusted networks,
allowing Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement to communicate across
networks.
Add IP Addresses to Allowlist in Marketing Cloud Connect
If you didn’t use the Marketing Cloud Connect Setup Wizard, follow these steps to manually add IP
addresses to your allowlist. The allowlist identifies them as safe and grants access to trusted networks,
allowing Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement to communicate across networks.
11.. In the Sales or Service Cloud Setup menu, click Security Controls.
172

=== PAGE 177 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
22.. Click Network Access.
33.. Enter the IP address ranges listed here.
44.. Save the allowlisted IP address ranges.
Connect to Marketing Cloud
The Sales or Service Cloud admin connects the Sales or Service Cloud account with the Marketing Cloud
Engagement account using the Marketing Cloud API user credentials. This task completes the account-
level connection for Marketing Cloud Connect.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, go to the Marketing Cloud tab.
22.. Click Show Advanced Settings.
33.. Enable Tenant-Specific OAuth Endpoints.
When you enableTenant-Specific OAuth Endpoints, your Marketing Cloud Connector Settings are
removed. If you’re reintegrating, record your settings before enablement.
44.. Enter the Marketing Cloud API user credentials.
55.. To connect the accounts, click Connect.
You can now manage Marketing Cloud Connect settings and test the connection to complete the setup.
Configure Settings
Configure Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement settings after installation and
setup.
11.. Manage Settings
Configure these settings after installation to enable sending.
22.. Map Attribute Fields
Personalize communications by linking Contact and Lead fields with Engagement attributes.
33.. Service Cloud Setup
If you're using Service Cloud, follow these steps to complete Marketing Cloud Connect integration.
44.. Business Unit Management
Map business units from Engagement Enterprise 2.0 accounts across clouds to enable them in
Marketing Cloud Connect.
Next topic: Test Connection
Previous topic: Connect to Marketing Cloud
173

=== PAGE 178 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Test the Connection in Marketing Cloud Connect
Make sure that Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement is set up correctly for
sending.
Map field attributes in Engagement and ensure that you configured Marketing Cloud Connect settings
before completing this test.
11.. To create an email for this test, go to Email Studio in Marketing Cloud.
22.. Click Content and create an email. For example:
Sent to: %%emailaddr%% <br> JobID: %%jobid%% <br> <table cellpadding="2"
cellspacing="0" width="600" ID="Table5" Border=0><tr><td><font face="verdana"
size="1" color="#444444">This email was sent by:
<b>%%Member_Busname%%</b><br>%%Member_Addr%% %%Member_City%%, %%Member_State%%,
%%Member_PostalCode%%, %%Member_Country%%<br><br></font></td></tr></table>
%%jobid%%<br><br> <a href="%%unsub_center_url%%"
alias="Unsubscribe">Unsubscribe</a> <custom name="opencounter"
type="tracking">
33.. Select Text Only.
44.. Name the email and click Next.
55.. Enter a subject line, for example, Integration Test.
66.. To test field mapping and personalization, enter the profile attributes that you mapped and System
Attributes.
77.. Select these System Snippets: Physical Mailing Address (Required), Profile Center (Required), and
Forward to a Friend.
88.. Save the email.
99.. To create a lead and report for this test, navigate to the Leads object in Sales Cloud.
1100.. Create a lead with your name, email address, and ZIP code.
1111.. Navigate to the Reports object.
1122.. Create a report that displays only your lead record. Include Contact or Lead ID in the report. For
example, create a Lead Report where Last Name = your last name and ZIP code = your ZIP code.
1133.. Save the report to the Marketing Cloud Admin report folder.
1144.. If your account is configured for non-scope by user, filter the report to show all leads.
1155.. To test the connection by sending an email, navigate to the Marketing Cloud object.
1166.. To select the email you created for this test, click Find.
1177.. Select Report for Recipients and search for the report you created for this test.
1188.. Select your email address for the From email address list.
1199.. Certify that all of these people have opted in.
2200.. Send the email.
2211.. To verify the test in the Sales Cloud, navigate to the Email Sends object.
174

=== PAGE 179 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Note The test send can take up to 60 minutes to complete.
2222.. Click the Email Send Number in the Recently Viewed list that corresponds with the test send.
2233.. To confirm that send was completed, check the status of the email.
2244.. Check the test email that you received to ensure the personalization populated correctly.
Previous Topic: Configure Settings
Upgrade to Marketing Cloud Connect
Learn the benefits of upgrading to Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement from an
earlier version of the connector. Marketing Cloud Connect is a more efficient and effective way to
manage your connection to the Sales or Service Cloud.
Benefits of Upgrading
•
Marketing Cloud Connect is integrated with Journey Builder, allowing use of Salesforce CRM data to
power your cross-cloud journeys.
•
Use your Salesforce CRM data in Engagement for segmentation and sending. Use Salesforce data
extensions in interactions, Automation Studio, and guided sends.
•
Use triggered sends to automatically send emails based on changes made to your Salesforce CRM
data.
•
Synchronized data tools bring data from standard or custom Salesforce objects into Engagement for
direct access without manually exporting, importing, or setting up automations.
•
Use Dynamic Send Preview to see fully rendered and personalized Engagement emails with real data
inside the Sales Cloud or Service Cloud.
•
Connect individual Enterprise 2.0 Engagement business units with a single Salesforce org,
independent of their parent account or any other business unit.
•
A/B testing from Marketing, Sales, or Service Cloud provides an opportunity to test differences in
emails with customers to determine which version performs best.
•
Manage the storage of Engagement tracking data stored in the Sales or Service Cloud.
•
Admins have access through the Sales or Service Cloud to manage Engagement users and business
units that can access Marketing Cloud Connect.
See Also
Marketing Cloud Connect Features
Disconnect Account
The ability to disconnect a Marketing Cloud Engagement account from a Sales or Service Cloud account
is only available for Enterprise 2.0, Core, and Lock & Publish accounts. Install managed package version
175

=== PAGE 180 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
5.493 or later. The account must use connected app authentication. The Engagement admin can
disconnect the accounts by editing the Salesforce Integration in the Email Studio admin. Disconnecting
takes from 5 minutes to several hours depending on the number of synchronized data extensions. The
Sales or Service Cloud admin then uninstalls the package.
Note There’s a known issue with Google Chrome. If you cancel after clicking Disconnect Account
and try disconnecting again, the process fails.
Disconnecting does the following:
•
Removes the connection between your Engagement account and the Sales or Service Cloud org.
•
Removes the Salesforce system user’s credentials and resets the connection at the account level.
•
Removes user mappings in the disconnected business unit and synchronized data extensions.
•
Cancels tracking subscriptions. Any tracking for previous sends isn’t pushed to the previous Sales or
Service Cloud org. Tracking isn’t affected in Engagement.
Important Background processes and activities, such as active triggered sends, continue
functioning until you inactivate them.
If needed for a new connection, remap all disconnected business units, orgs, and users, and reconfigure
synchronized data extensions.
If a new connection is made, tracking for previous sends isn’t pushed to the new org.
See Also
Uninstall a Managed Package
Authentication Between Clouds
Connected App Authentication is a secure authentication mechanism used by Marketing Cloud Connect
to connect from Marketing Cloud Engagement to Sales or Service Cloud. Now your users are
authenticated automatically without Sales or Service Cloud user password management.
Authentication tools connect your users automatically between Engagement, Sales Cloud, and Service
Cloud to create a secure, seamless experience working with Marketing Cloud Connect. After Salesforce
admins complete the initial setup and configuration, users log in once to Marketing Cloud Connect and
are automatically authenticated in the future.
Authentication from Engagement into the Sales and Service Clouds
Connected App Authentication is a secure authentication mechanism used by Marketing Cloud Connect.
It removes SOAP and REST API limits for Marketing Cloud Connect. Connected App Authentication
doesn’t lift BULK API limits. API calls made into Engagement don’t count against your daily limit.
Connected App authentication is required for all Marketing Cloud Connect customers as of June 1,
176

=== PAGE 181 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
2016. It’s available with all versions of Marketing Cloud Connect. New customers who complete all steps
to connect clouds installed Connected App authentication. If you’re an existing customer with an older
version of the managed package, complete all steps to upgrade to Connected App Authentication.
Authentication from the Sales and Service Cloud into Engagement
Tenant-specific OAuth Authentication uses the JWT bearer token flow and access tokens to provide a
secure connection between the clouds, without storing Engagement user passwords within Sales and
Service Clouds. This enhanced authentication is available with the 220 or newer managed package
release.
To reduce downtime or impact to your business, follow these steps if you’re upgrading from an older
version of the managed package.
•
Allow all scheduled sends to complete before starting the upgrade, if possible.
•
Ensure that you can log in to Engagement using the current API user credentials.
•
To minimize downtime if an unexpected error occurs, schedule the upgrade during off-peak hours.
•
Install the managed package.
•
In Sales or Service Cloud in the Marketing Cloud Configuration Settings, enable tenant-specific OAuth
Endpoints.
•
Click Connect to Marketing Cloud.
•
Enter the API user credentials.
•
Click Log-in.
When the upgrade completes, verify that Marketing Cloud Connect API user credentials converted to the
new authentication framework by navigating to the Marketing Cloud tab in Sales or Service Cloud. If the
API user didn’t migrate, you’re prompted to enter the API user credentials. If you have an Enterprise 2.0
Engagement account, click Manage Business Units and confirm that previously active business units are
active. Add business units if needed and save. Also, confirm the API user migration for non-Enterprise 2.0
accounts by completing a triggered send test.
Upgrade to Connected App
Upgrade your account to use Connected App Authentication, which is required for all Marketing Cloud
Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement accounts as of June 1, 2016.
Troubleshoot Connected App
Follow these tips to troubleshoot your Connected App authentication for Marketing Cloud Connect for
Marketing Cloud Engagement.
See Also
Connected Apps
Authorize Apps with OAuth
Set Up Connected App Authentication
177

=== PAGE 182 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Upgrade to Connected App
Upgrade your account to use Connected App Authentication, which is required for all Marketing Cloud
Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement accounts as of June 1, 2016.
If "My Documents in Content" is enabled for your account, view migration details in files named with the
date and migrationsuccess.csv or migrationfailures.csv.
Important Schedule a 2-hour sending outage for the upgrade. The connection between the Sales,
Service, and Marketing Cloud Engagement isn’t available during the upgrade process, so ensure that
all Marketing Cloud Connect activities are paused. All sends to reports, campaigns, contacts, leads,
and Salesforce data extensions fail. Marketing Cloud Engagement sends that do not involve
Marketing Cloud Connect aren’t affected.
The Engagement admin completes steps 1–11. The Sales or Service Cloud admin completes the
remaining steps.
11.. In the Marketing Cloud, navigate to Email Studio.
22.. Click Admin.
33.. Click Salesforce Integration.
44.. Click Upgrade to Connected App.
Warning During this process, the system automatically connects to any active Salesforce session.
To prevent incorrect connection, log out of any active Sales or Service Cloud sessions, other than
the Salesforce system user session for this process. Closing the tab doesn’t end an active session.
If you are using a company-specific login URL, such as
https://mycompany.my.salesforce.com, log in to the org that you’re connecting to using the
Salesforce system user credentials before connecting your accounts.
55.. Click Connect Account.
66.. Acknowledge the changes to your account and begin the upgrade process.
77.. Log in to your Sales or Service Cloud org using the Salesforce system user credentials if prompted.
88.. Allow the Salesforce Marketing Cloud Connected App to access your data if prompted.
99.. Select Migrate Existing Users to automatically reconnect any previously connected users, if available.
Auto-connection is available for 14 days after the upgrade.
1100.. To begin the auto-connection process, click Connect.
1111.. To close the auto-connection results popup window, click OK.
1122.. In the Sales or Service cloud, click Setup.
1133.. Search for Connected Apps in the Quick Find box and click Connected Apps.
1144.. Click Salesforce Marketing Cloud.
1155.. Click Edit.
1166.. Under Permitted Users, select Admin approved users are pre-authorized.
1177.. Under IP Relaxation, select Relax IP restrictions.
1188.. Under Refresh Token Policy, select Immediately expire refresh token.
1199.. Click Save.
2200.. From Setup, search for Permission Sets in the Quick Find box and click Permission Sets.
178

=== PAGE 183 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
2211.. Create a new permission set.
Note This permission set is used to associate users to the Salesforce Marketing Cloud Connected
App and can remain empty.
2222.. Name the permission set, for example, Marketing Cloud Connected App.
2233.. Validate the auto-generated API, which is generated using the permission set name.
2244.. Save the changes.
2255.. Click the name of the newly created permission set.
2266.. Click Manage Assignments.
2277.. Click Add Assignments.
2288.. Select the users who need access to the Connected App, typically all users with access to Marketing
Cloud Connect.
2299.. Click Assign.
3300.. Click Done.
3311.. From Setup, search for Connected Apps in the Quick Find box and click Connected Apps.
3322.. Click Salesforce Marketing Cloud.
3333.. Click Manage Permission Sets.
3344.. Select the newly created permission set.
3355.. Click Save.
The Connected App authentication upgrade is complete. Send a test email to yourself to validate the
connection and monitor your API usage.
See Also
Connected Apps
Troubleshoot Connected App
Follow these tips to troubleshoot your Connected App authentication for Marketing Cloud Connect for
Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Users Can't Access Marketing Cloud Connect
Ensure that you granted users the Marketing Cloud for AppExchange User permission and the
permission set created during the Connected App Authentication process. Apply this same permission to
the Marketing Cloud Connected App.
If those permissions have been granted to the users, check to see if you changed your connected
Engagement account or business unit. It’s possible that the system is attempting to log in the users to a
previously connected Engagement account or business unit. Salesforce uses tokens stored in a protected
custom setting to authenticate between Engagement and other clouds. Resetting your connection
doesn’t reset those tokens.
Refreshing the API user connection resets Marketing Cloud Connect users tokens account-wide. Go to
the Marketing Cloud Connect configuration page and click Change API User. Reenter the credentials for
your existing Marketing Cloud API user.
179

=== PAGE 184 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Reconnect any connected business units after refreshing the user.
Users Receive a Login or Credential Exception When Sending a Marketing
Cloud Email
Grant users access to the permission set, created during the Connected App authentication process, to
send using Marketing Cloud Connect.
See Also
Permission-Based Access
Manage Users
Map Business Units
Manage Marketing Cloud Connect Settings
Admins access Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement settings and send
configuration by navigating to the Engagement object in the Sales or Service Cloud. Admins can
configure these settings, including sends, tracking, users, and business units, after the installation and
setup process to enable sending through Marketing Cloud Connect.
Field Description
Username The username of the Marketing Cloud
Engagement API user who connects the accounts.
Marketing Cloud Type Engagement edition type.
Send Types Type of sends available for use through Marketing
Cloud Connect. Email must be selected to ensure
that sends are enabled for users.
Alternate ‘Reply-to’ Options Allows you to select from a configurable list of
names and email addresses to have replies sent.
Reply Mail Management must be enabled and
configured in Engagement for Reply-To Options to
work.
Marketing Cloud Deep Link Access These Edit, New Email, and Go To Marketing
Cloud links automatically log in users to
Engagement to perform those functions. Use this
configuration setting to restrict the use of these
deep links within the Marketing Cloud Connect
installation.
Target Audience Recipient type that can be selected for sending.
Select Report and Campaign to enable sending
180

=== PAGE 185 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Field Description
through Marketing Cloud Connect. Only active
campaigns are sendable. With scope by user
configuration, you need access to folders
containing the desired report to send to them.
Exclusion Audience Audience type that can be excluded from targeted
audiences.
Retry Failed Sends If this option is selected, the system retries
sending if the system is temporarily unavailable.
The option to cancel a send is provided to prevent
it from being retried. Retry is only available when a
support ticket recipient has been added to this
settings page.
My Personal Custom Reports Enabling this option allows sending to reports
saved in My Personal Custom Reports folder. This
option is available for scope by user account
configuration only, as system admins don’t have
access to this folder.
Restriction Select the desired restriction level of Marketing
Cloud Connect triggered sends to only admins or
admins and users. This restriction applies only to
the administration of triggered sends, not sending
them.
Enabled Objects Set the list of objects that triggered sends can be
created for within Marketing Cloud Connect.
Support Ticket Recipient Set an email address of the Salesforce support
resource in your company who gets notifications
of issues or problems with Marketing Cloud
Connect.
Logging Selecting this option starts logging all package-
related API calls and associated details. Logging is
disabled 60 minutes after it’s enabled. After
logging is enabled, the Initiate Logging button
changes to a hyperlink that links to the
Documents object. From Documents, select
Marketing Cloud Documents.
Tracking Detail Select the desired level of tracking data to return
to the Sales or Service Cloud from Engagement.
Tracking Frequency Set the desired frequency for tracking data to be
181

=== PAGE 186 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Field Description
updated. We recommend hourly.
Number of Days Tracked Set the number of days that tracking data is
returned to the Sales or Service Cloud after the
send, up to 365 days. Tracking data is retained in
Salesforce after this time period has expired. We
recommend 90 days.
Campaign Member Tracking Allows for setting campaign member status based
on tracking data.
(Advanced setting) Tenant-Specific OAuth Enable tenant-specific OAuth endpoints or
Endpoints remove to use generic endpoints. Use these
endpoints to enable security interactions for your
integration and protect against service disruptions
in authentication.
Map Attribute Fields
To personalize communications, map Sales Cloud Contact, Lead, and Account objects in Marketing
Cloud Engagement to share attributes across the clouds and enable personalization for Marketing
Cloud Connect communications. Multi-org doesn’t support Web Collect or custom field and attribute
mapping.
Set Up Service Cloud for Marketing Cloud Connect
Create an app in Service Cloud for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Map Business Units
Map business units from Marketing Cloud Engagement Enterprise 2.0 accounts across clouds to
enable them in Marketing Cloud Connect.
See Also
Reply Mail Management for Marketing Cloud Email
Tracking and Analytics
Campaign Member Integration
Map Attribute Fields
To personalize communications, map Sales Cloud Contact, Lead, and Account objects in Marketing
Cloud Engagement to share attributes across the clouds and enable personalization for Marketing Cloud
Connect communications. Multi-org doesn’t support Web Collect or custom field and attribute mapping.
11.. In Engagement, go to Email Studio.
22.. Click Subscribers.
33.. Click Profile Management.
44.. Select an attribute or create one.
55.. In the New Attribute Properties window, click the Salesforce tab within the attribute properties.
182

=== PAGE 187 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
The Salesforce tab is only available if you already connected your Marketing Cloud account with your
Sales or Service Cloud org through Marketing Cloud Connect.
66.. To map the attribute, select the field.
Note The maximum length of the Profile Attribute must match the maximum length of the
Salesforce object. Mismatched lengths can cause errors with a triggered send or a Journey Builder
send.
77.. Repeat to map each attribute to a field in the Sales or Service Cloud.
Set Up Service Cloud for Marketing Cloud Connect
Create an app in Service Cloud for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
11.. In Service Cloud, navigate to Setup.
22.. Click Create.
33.. Click Apps.
44.. Click New.
55.. Enter Marketing Cloud for the app label and name to create the app.
66.. Add a logo if desired.
77.. Customize tabs and add Marketing Cloud, Email Sends, and Send Analytics.
88.. Assign these tabs to the applicable profiles, making the new custom app visible in the Salesforce
AppExchange menu.
99.. Save the changes.
Map Business Units
Map business units from Marketing Cloud Engagement Enterprise 2.0 accounts across clouds to enable
them in Marketing Cloud Connect.
Before installation and configuration, confirm that the Marketing Cloud Engagement API user can access
these items.
•
Top-level default parent business unit
•
All business units that are enabled for sends through Marketing Cloud Connect
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, go to the Marketing Cloud tab.
22.. Click Configure Marketing Cloud Connector.
33.. Click Manage Business Units.
44.. Select business units to enable.
55.. Save the selections.
This page only supports 4,000 business units. If you have more than 4,000, create a business unit tab as
a custom solution to accommodate more. You can use a single integration user for a maximum of five
business units.
183

=== PAGE 188 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
See Also
Assign Business Units
Enterprise 1.0 Overview
Manage Users
After completing the Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement installation and setup,
integrate Engagement and Sales or Service Cloud users to enable access to Marketing Cloud Connect.
Marketing Cloud Connect users need a license for Engagement and a license for Salesforce CRM to use
most Marketing Cloud Connect functionality.
Enterprise 2.0 Marketing Cloud Accounts
The Marketing Cloud admin follows this process to set up users in Enterprise 2.0 Marketing Cloud
accounts for Marketing Cloud Connect.
11.. In Marketing Cloud, go to Email Studio.
22.. Click Admin.
33.. Click My Users.
44.. Select the user to connect.
55.. Click Integrate for Salesforce.com Status.
66.. Enter the Sales or Service Cloud username.
77.. Save the settings.
88.. From My Users, select the user.
99.. Click Manage Roles.
1100.. Select the applicable business unit.
1111.. Click Edit Roles.
1122.. Select these minimum permissions required for sending through Marketing Cloud Connect.
••
Content Creator
••
Data Manager
••
Marketing Cloud Content Editor/Publisher
Note You can also allow Email > Integrations permissions for any users that need to send from
your connected Salesforce org.
1133.. Save the roles.
All Other Marketing Cloud Accounts
The Marketing Cloud admin follows this process to set up users in all non-Enterprise 2.0 Marketing Cloud
accounts for Marketing Cloud Connect.
11.. In Marketing Cloud, go to Email Studio.
22.. Click Admin.
33.. Click Account Settings.
184

=== PAGE 189 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
44.. Click My Users.
55.. Click the applicable user.
66.. Click Integrate for Salesforce.com Status.
77.. Enter the Sales or Service Cloud username.
88.. Save the settings.
99.. Click Edit.
1100.. Select Enabled.
1111.. Select API User.
1122.. Under User Permissions, select these minimum permissions.
••
Grant the user access to the web services
••
Administrative Data Management
••
Manage Data Extension Data and Retention Policy
1133.. Under Marketing Cloud Permissions and Roles, select Email for applications.
1144.. Under Marketing Cloud Permissions and Roles, select Marketing Cloud Content Editor/Publisher or
Administrator for roles.
1155.. Save the changes.
1166.. Repeat this process for all integration users.
Integrate Users with Marketing Cloud
The Marketing Cloud Connect admin finishes the user setup process in Marketing Cloud Connect.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, go to the Marketing Cloud tab.
22.. Click Configure Marketing Cloud Connector.
33.. Click Manage Users.
44.. Select each applicable user.
55.. To complete the setup, save your changes.
Remove Users
Admins in Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, or Experience Cloud can remove user access to Marketing Cloud
Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
11.. Go to the Marketing Cloud tab.
22.. Click Configure Marketing Cloud Connector.
33.. Click Manage Users.
44.. Deselect the user.
55.. Save your work.
Update Marketing Cloud Engagement API User
Change the Marketing Cloud Engagement API User for the Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing
Cloud Engagement integration.
185

=== PAGE 190 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Warning When you update Marketing Cloud Engagement API user credentials, email send
processing stops and can result in failed triggered or scheduled sends. Before updating the API user,
pause all email sends and deactivate triggered sends.
11.. Log out of all active Engagement sessions in your browser.
22.. In Sales or Service Cloud, go to the Marketing Cloud tab.
33.. Click Configure Marketing Cloud Connector.
If your integration token expired, click Connect to Marketing Cloud and enter the API user credentials
to log in to Engagement and refresh the token.
44.. Click Change API User.
Important If you’re logged in to an active Engagement session in another tab, the system
connects to that user. Log out of that session if it isn’t the Marketing Cloud Engagement API user.
55.. Enter the updated Marketing Cloud Engagement API user credentials.
66.. Click Update API User.
All Marketing Cloud Connect users are asked to reauthenticate the next time they log in to Marketing
Cloud Connect.
Permission-Based Access
If you purchased Marketing Cloud Engagement Licensing after our September 2016 Release, you can
access Marketing Cloud Connect functionality. You can access the features when your Marketing Cloud
and CRM users are connected: enter a valid username in the Salesforce.com status field on the
Marketing Cloud user record.
New Feature Locations
When connected, you see Marketing Cloud Connect features in the following locations:
•
Email Studio Email Admin
•
Account Administration
•
Global Navigation (Beta) in Engagement Setup.
The Salesforce.com Status screen and field are available after connecting accounts through the
Salesforce Integration page. From Email Studio, navigate to the user records in Email Admin.
Marketing Cloud Connect functionality is available after connecting individuals on the Salesforce.com
Status field of the user record.
User Experience Changes
Changed Marketing Cloud Connect features and functionality include:
186

=== PAGE 191 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Changed Area Release of Change Changes and Notes
September 2016 Visible after user is connected
Salesforce (CRM) Reports
•
Salesforce (CRM) Campaigns
•
Salesforce Data Extensions (+
shared)
•
Guided Sends
•
Triggered Sends
•
Salesforce Sends
•
A/B Test
•
Salesforce Journey Builder
Activities
Automation Studio October 2016
•
Visible always (no change to
current behavior)
•
Shows an error if user is not
connected
•
If the user who configured the
automation remains
connected, non-connected
users can run automations
using CRM audiences.
Email Send Flow October 2016
•
Visible always (no change to
current behavior)
•
If the account is connected,
Email Send Flow shows
Salesforce Reports,
Campaigns, and Data
Extensions.
Account-level and user-level connection to Salesforce CRM determines access to specific functionality
and data.
187

=== PAGE 192 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Account Enabled
Account Enabled Account Enabled
+ Account Connected + Account Connected
+ User Connected
Available Available Available
Salesforce Integration
Email > Admin
Not available Available Available
Salesforce.com Status
Email Admin > My Users
> User
Salesforce Data Not available Available Available
Extension Sends*
Imports from Salesforce Not available Available
Available
Objects and Reports**
(Non-Scope by User
accounts only)
Engagement Not available Not available Available
Functionality
*Salesforce Data Extensions (SFDEs) become visible and available for sending for all users once account-
level connection is complete. Complete sends from Marketing Cloud email send flow, Salesforce Sends,
guided sends, triggered sends, and A/B test sends.
**Importing Salesforce Objects and Reports via Interactions is available for all users in Non-Scope By
User accounts. Importing Salesforce Objects and Reports via Interactions is available for connected users
in Scope By User accounts.
Granting User Permissions
Engagement users need active Sales or Service Cloud user accounts to access Marketing Cloud Connect
functionality. Grant users access by entering their corresponding Sales or Service Cloud username in their
Engagement user record.
See Also
Configure Marketing Cloud and Marketing Cloud Connect
188

=== PAGE 193 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Email Sends
Integrated users send Marketing Cloud Engagement emails through the Sales or Service Cloud with
Marketing Cloud Connect. Send single emails to leads, contacts, and person account records, or send to
a list through campaigns and reports.
Send from Sales or Service Clouds
Send emails from any of the following:
•
Running User: the person currently logged in to Salesforce.
•
Record Owner: the user who created the record as the sender.
•
Org-wide Email Address: a list of users in the Sales or Service Cloud whose email address qualifies as a
possible sender.
•
Send Classification: uses the sender profile associated with it.
Note Ensure that all default sender profiles, delivery profiles and send classifications aren’t deleted
or renamed. Marketing Cloud Connect must recognize Default Commercial and Default
Transactional send classifications.
The first time a message is sent through Marketing Cloud Connect to a contact, lead, or person account
from Sales or Service Cloud, that recipient is added to the All Subscribers list in Engagement. For
example, when an Engagement email is sent from Sales Cloud to a report containing contacts, those
contacts are added to the All Subscribers list. The Engagement status for that subscriber is set to Active
in the All Subscribers list.
Also, the first time a message is sent through Marketing Cloud Connect to a contact, lead, or person
account from Sales or Service Cloud, a unique Engagement subscriber key is created to identify that
individual based on the LeadID or ContactID fields. Email tracking history, email opt-out, and preferences
for that individual are tied to the subscriber key. If you use a lead conversion process to convert leads to
contacts in Sales Cloud, when the ContactID is sent to Engagement, a new subscriber is added with a
new subscriber key. Therefore, the tracking data, opt-out, and preferences aren’t automatically
transferred for that individual.
Send from Engagement
You can also send Engagement classic emails and Content Builder emails to Salesforce reports,
campaigns, and data extensions directly in Email Studio.
After your Engagement and Sales or Service Cloud user accounts are integrated, reports, campaigns, and
Salesforce data extensions are available recipient options. Use one of these methods to send:
•
Complete a Guided Send for classic emails
•
Complete a Send Flow for Content Builder emails
•
Select Salesforce Send Emails under Interactions for both classic emails and Content Builder
189

=== PAGE 194 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Note Not seeing this functionality? It’s available after users are connected to the CRM on their User
Detail record. Salesforce.com Status is Integrated.
Send a Single Email with Marketing Cloud Connect
Send a single Marketing Cloud Engagement email from within Sales or Service Cloud through
Marketing Cloud Connect.
Send Emails to Campaigns or Reports
Send a Marketing Cloud Engagement email from Sales or Service Cloud to a campaign or report
through Marketing Cloud Connect. Reports must contain Contact ID, ContactID, Lead ID, or LeadID
fields. Store reports in a custom Salesforce folder for sending and ensure that the user who executes
the send can access the folder. Marketing Cloud Connect doesn’t support sending to joined reports or
reports stored in standard Salesforce folders.
Triggered Sends
Use triggered email sends to create and send automated messages to Salesforce contacts, leads, or
person accounts when object records are created or updated.
Marketing Cloud Sends to Campaigns or Reports
Use this Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement feature to create a Salesforce
Send Definition and send to Salesforce campaigns or reports in Engagement. Reports must contain
Contact ID, ContactID, Lead ID, or LeadID fields. Store reports in a custom Salesforce folder for
sending and ensure that the user who executes the send can access the folder. Marketing Cloud
Connect doesn’t support sending to joined reports or reports stored in standard Salesforce folders.
Dynamic Sender Profile
With Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement, map Salesforce attributes with
Engagement preference attributes. Send emails to reports or campaigns from multiple email
addresses using sender profiles.
Tokenized Sending Across Clouds
Tokenized Sending lets you use data for your messages that is deemed too sensitive to store in
Salesforce due to laws, regulations, or security policies. To protect sensitive information across clouds,
use tokenized sending with Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
See Also
Send an Email
Send Flow
Interactions
Salesforce Data Extensions in Marketing Cloud Connect
Send a Single Email with Marketing Cloud Connect
Send a single Marketing Cloud Engagement email from within Sales or Service Cloud through Marketing
Cloud Connect.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, navigate to a lead, contact, person account, or campaign.
22.. Click Send Marketing Cloud Email.
190

=== PAGE 195 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
33.. To access emails, click Find.
44.. Select an email.
55.. Select a From email address.
66.. Select a Reply-to email address.
Ensure that Reply Mail Management is configured for your account.
77.. If you want to prevent creating subscriber-level tracking for the send, select Disable Individual Level
Tracking.
88.. Set the time and date for sending.
This setting determines the date and time the process starts, not the actual date and time the email is
sent. You can update and cancel a scheduled send.
99.. Verify that you have permission to send an email to the recipient.
1100.. Send the email.
Send Emails to Campaigns or Reports
Send a Marketing Cloud Engagement email from Sales or Service Cloud to a campaign or report through
Marketing Cloud Connect. Reports must contain Contact ID, ContactID, Lead ID, or LeadID fields. Store
reports in a custom Salesforce folder for sending and ensure that the user who executes the send can
access the folder. Marketing Cloud Connect doesn’t support sending to joined reports or reports stored
in standard Salesforce folders.
When you send to a report or campaign, Marketing Cloud Connect creates a data extension for the send.
The data extension is deleted after 5 days.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, go to the Marketing Cloud tab.
22.. If you’re not automatically redirected, click Email Send.
33.. If you’re using an Enterprise 2.0 account, use the look-up tool to select a business unit from which the
email send originates.
44.. To select an Engagement email, click Find.
55.. To see the email before sending, click Preview Email.
66.. Edit the subject line if needed.
77.. Add up to 10 reports or campaigns to Recipients.
88.. If needed, add reports or campaigns to the Exclusions field to exclude recipients from the send.
99.. To create an email linkage, select Remember recipients and exclusions for this email. This selection
associates an email to this specific list of recipients and exclusions. On subsequent sends, selecting
this email automatically populates the Recipients and Exclusions fields with the reports or campaigns
chosen here.
1100.. Select a From email address or send classification.
If a contact has the Email Opt Out flag set, they don’t receive Engagement emails unless it’s a
transactional send classification. The transactional send classification requires Marketing Cloud
Connect version 5.18 or later.
191

=== PAGE 196 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
1111.. Choose the Reply-to email address, used for receiving replies to this email.
1122.. To prevent sending more than one email to the same email address in this send, select Dedupe
Subscribers.
1133.. To prevent subscriber level tracking for this send, select Disable Individual Tracking.
1144.. Set the Send Date and Time for the email send process to start.
Update or cancel a scheduled send as needed.
1155.. Certify that all recipients have opted in and provided permission to receive the email.
1166.. Send the email.
Triggered Sends
Use triggered email sends to create and send automated messages to Salesforce contacts, leads, or
person accounts when object records are created or updated.
11.. Marketing Cloud Connect Triggered Sends
Automatically send relevant, timely, personalized messages using triggered sends. Welcome emails to
new customers or thank you notes for purchases are examples of how triggered sends are commonly
used. Review important prerequisites and learn how to effectively use triggered sends with Marketing
Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
22.. Configure Objects and Triggers
Complete the steps to create triggers, enable objects, and configure triggers with Marketing Cloud
Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
33.. Create a Salesforce Triggered Send in Marketing Cloud Connect
To send an automated message through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement,
build the Triggered Send.
44.. Personalize with Custom Objects
Use custom objects and AMPscript to personalize your messages in Marketing Cloud Connect for
Marketing Cloud Engagement.
55.. Testing an Object Trigger Before Sending
Before sending a triggered email through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement,
use a test script. Repeat the script for each object with a trigger setup. Ensure that the object’s defined
properties account for all required properties on an object.
66.. Tracking Triggered Sends
Find related lists to help track the triggered sends through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing
Cloud Engagement.
Marketing Cloud Connect Triggered Sends
Automatically send relevant, timely, personalized messages using triggered sends. Welcome emails to
new customers or thank you notes for purchases are examples of how triggered sends are commonly
used. Review important prerequisites and learn how to effectively use triggered sends with Marketing
Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
192

=== PAGE 197 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Create triggered sends on objects with a lookup to a Contact ID or Lead ID, or to an Account object if
person accounts are enabled. After you create a trigger for each object, messages are sent each time an
update or insert event occurs on the objects.
You can use many features of triggered sends within the Sales or Service Cloud.
•
Create and edit triggered sends.
•
View existing triggered sends across clouds.
•
Review aggregate tracking data for triggered sends across clouds.
•
Add subscribers to specific data extensions for more marketing opportunities. If no destination data
extension is selected, the subscriber is added to the All Subscribers list in Engagement. If the user that
activated the send doesn’t have access to the All Subscribers list, the contact or lead isn’t added to that
list.
Before you begin…
•
Acquire access to the All Subscribers list in Engagement.
•
Ensure that triggered sends are enabled in Engagement.
•
Set up send classifications in Engagement for triggered sends. If needed, overwrite send classifications
in Marketing Cloud Connect using Override from Name/Email Address.
•
The email associated with the triggered send must pass validation in Engagement.
Tip Follow these best practices and guidelines.
•
Triggered sends only work with events that occur after updates and inserts.
•
To change the filter criteria or select a new email for your triggered send after creating it through
Marketing Cloud Connect, update the triggered send in Sales or Service Cloud. Editing a triggered
send in Engagement after creating it in Sales Cloud changes the ID associated with the triggered
send, which prevents updates.
•
Triggered sends use Apex code. Write and test triggers in a Salesforce developer environment,
sandbox, or trial org before publishing to production.
•
Triggered sends don’t support bulk updates or inserts.
•
Marketing Cloud Connect is governed by SOQL query limits. Each evaluation of a triggered send
uses one query toward the SOQL limit of 100 at one time. To reduce the number of queries
performed, use the automateByName Apex method.
•
You can execute up to 50 triggered sends within a transaction, including a bulk record update or
sends that meet filter criteria for a single record.
See Also
Triggers and Order of Execution
Triggered Emails in Email Studio
Introducing Apex
Configure Objects and Triggers
Complete the steps to create triggers, enable objects, and configure triggers with Marketing Cloud
193

=== PAGE 198 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Permission for Triggered Sends Configuration is required to complete these tasks.
11.. From Sales or Service Cloud, click Setup.
22.. Under Build, click Customize.
33.. Select the object.
44.. Click Triggers.
55.. Click New.
66.. In the Apex Trigger window, select Is Active.
77.. Enter the following code, substituting the desired object name where indicated with Object Name.
trigger Trig_Object Name on Object Name (after insert, after update) { et4ae
5.triggerUtility.automate('Object Name'); }
For example:
trigger Trig_Lead on Lead (after insert, after update) { et4ae5.triggerUtili
ty.automate('Lead'); }
88.. Save the trigger.
The trigger is created for the object.
99.. Click the Marketing Cloud tab.
1100.. Click Configure Marketing Cloud Connect.
1111.. Click Edit Settings.
1122.. Under Triggered Sends, select Restriction to set user permissions and restrictions.
1133.. Under Triggered Sends, add Enabled Objects to be used for triggered sends.
1144.. Save the settings and selections.
The restrictions are set and objects enabled.
Use Apex to Create Triggers
A trigger is Apex code that executes before or after the following types of operations: insert, update,
delete, merge, upsert, and undelete. Developer environments, sandboxes, and trial orgs can create,
edit, and delete Apex classes and triggers directly in the Salesforce CRM user interface. Unlimited
Edition and Enterprise Edition production orgs can execute and view Apex in the user interface, but
modifying Apex in the user interface is not allowed.
Use Apex to Create Triggers
A trigger is Apex code that executes before or after the following types of operations: insert, update,
delete, merge, upsert, and undelete. Developer environments, sandboxes, and trial orgs can create, edit,
and delete Apex classes and triggers directly in the Salesforce CRM user interface. Unlimited Edition and
Enterprise Edition production orgs can execute and view Apex in the user interface, but modifying Apex
in the user interface is not allowed.
Write Apex classes and triggers first in a developer environment, sandbox, or trial org, then tested with
194

=== PAGE 199 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
appropriate test methods before deploying to production. Install the Marketing Cloud Connect for
Marketing Cloud Engagement package in your production org before deploying triggers to ensure that
classes are referenced properly.
See Also
Introducing Apex
Testing Apex
Deploying Apex
Create a Salesforce Triggered Send in Marketing Cloud Connect
To send an automated message through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement,
build the Triggered Send.
Permission for Triggered Sends Configuration is required to complete these tasks.
11.. From Sales or Service Cloud, click the Marketing Cloud tab.
22.. Click Triggered Sends.
33.. Click New.
44.. Enter a Name.
55.. Choose an Object.
Tip If you select an object with more than 1,000 fields, only the first 1,000 fields are available for
selection.
66.. Select the Recipient Lookup source field that has the lookup relationship to the recipient source.
For example, select Contact ID for the Contact Object, or select Lead ID for the Lead Object. Only one
lookup field can be selected.
77.. Customize Field Criteria for the event trigger as necessary, to a maximum of 9 criteria.
aa.. To add field logic options, click +.
bb.. To specify whether each criteria is in addition (AND) or an alternative (OR), click .
For example, 1 AND 2.
88.. To determine the actions on the record that warrant evaluation for a send, select an option for Trigger
send when.
For example, you configure a trigger and intend for it to send a single time for the first match found.
You configure the trigger to send an email when Checkbox A is set to Yes. If you set the Trigger send
when to new record is created or existing record is updated, when Checkbox A is set to Yes, the
Triggered Send email is triggered every time that record is updated, as long as Checkbox A is set to
Yes.
99.. Choose a Business Unit if applicable.
1100.. Select an Email for sending when the trigger activates.
1111.. To review emails with dynamic, personalized content using real Contact or Lead data before sending,
click Preview Email.
195

=== PAGE 200 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
1122.. Subject line populates with the subject of the selected email. You can overwrite the subject line as
necessary.
1133.. Select a Send Classification.
1144.. Specify the Send Time.
1155.. Certify that all recipients opted in to receive the email.
1166.. Save the triggered send.
1177.. To begin sending the triggered send, click Activate.
Deactivate the triggered send before editing.
See Also
Dynamic Send Preview
Personalize Triggered Sends with Object Data
Personalize with Custom Objects
Use custom objects and AMPscript to personalize your messages in Marketing Cloud Connect for
Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Use custom objects associated to a contact or lead for personalization in triggered sends from the Sales
and Service Clouds. Use AMPscript with custom objects for more personalization.
For example, instead of sending generic replies such as, “Susan, your case has been closed,” use custom
objects to personalize the reply as “Susan, your Case ABC123XYZ, ‘Unable to Send’ was closed at
11:29PM by John Smith.”
Sample:
%%[
Set @mySObject = SObject
Set @myRecordId = RecordId
set @Case = RetrieveSalesforceObjects(SObject,"Subject,Status","Id", "=", Reco
rdId)
Set @CaseRow = Row(@Case, 1)
Set @Subject = FIELD(@CaseRow, "Subject")
Set @Status = FIELD(@CaseRow, "Status")
]%%
<br><br>
SObject From API Call: %%=v(@mySObject)=%% <br>
RecordId From API Call: %%=v(@myRecordId)=%% <br>
Subject From RetrieveSalesforceObjects: %%=v(@Subject)=%% <br>
Status From RetrieveSalesforceObjects: %%=v(@Status)=%% <br>
See Also
Introduction to Programmatic Marketing Content
196

=== PAGE 201 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Testing an Object Trigger Before Sending
Before sending a triggered email through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement,
use a test script. Repeat the script for each object with a trigger setup. Ensure that the object’s defined
properties account for all required properties on an object.
This example script checks the Contact object, where LastName='TestExample'.
{
private static testmethod void ContactTriggerTest()
{
insert new et4ae5__Configuration__c(et4ae5__Support_Ticket_Recipien
t__c = 'example@example.com');
Test.startTest();
Contact c = new Contact(LastName='TestExample');
// Insert contact
insert c;
// If no exceptions occurred, it was successful
System.assert(!String.isBlank(c.Id));
Test.stopTest();
}
}
Tracking Triggered Sends
Find related lists to help track the triggered sends through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud
Engagement.
Triggered sends are listed in multiple places within the Sales or Service Cloud and Marketing Cloud
Connect for tracking.
•
Individual Email Result related list on the contact or lead record of the Sales or Service Cloud
197

=== PAGE 202 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
•
Individual Email Result and Aggregate Link Level Details related lists on the Triggered Send Definition
Triggered sends created in the Sales or Service Cloud return tracking from Engagement to Sales or
Service Cloud. Triggered sends created in Engagement don’t return tracking to Sales or Service Cloud. For
example, an API call to Engagement doesn’t return tracking to Sales or Service Cloud.
Tip View a thumbnail preview of triggered sends on the Individual Email Results record. Previews
include triggered sends created with Content Builder after the 209 managed package release.
Thumbnails don’t include rendering of any personalization or AMPscript.
See Also
Triggered Emails in Email Studio
Triggered Sends Tracking
Marketing Cloud Sends to Campaigns or Reports
Use this Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement feature to create a Salesforce Send
Definition and send to Salesforce campaigns or reports in Engagement. Reports must contain Contact ID,
ContactID, Lead ID, or LeadID fields. Store reports in a custom Salesforce folder for sending and ensure
that the user who executes the send can access the folder. Marketing Cloud Connect doesn’t support
sending to joined reports or reports stored in standard Salesforce folders.
Send to up to 10 Salesforce campaigns or reports in Engagement.
11.. In Engagement, go to Email Studio.
22.. Click Salesforce Send Emails under Interactions.
33.. Click Create.
44.. Enter a name and description for the email.
55.. Select an email to send.
66.. Select a send classification.
77.. Click Edit Recipients.
88.. Add Salesforce reports, campaigns, or data extensions to the Targeted recipient list.
99.. Select a report, campaign, or data extension from the lookup window.
Tip To return all reports or campaigns, leave the search field blank and click Find Now.
1100.. Add Salesforce reports, campaigns, or data extensions to the Exclusions list if needed.
1111.. Save the recipients list.
1122.. Save the Salesforce send definition.
The Salesforce send definition is created.
1133.. In Engagement, go to Email Studio.
Any changes made to an email after you’ve scheduled a send are reflected in your scheduled send.
1144.. Click Salesforce Send Emails under Interactions.
1155.. Select a Salesforce send definition.
1166.. Click Send.
1177.. Select the date and time to start the send.
198

=== PAGE 203 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
1188.. Certify that all recipients have opted to receive the email.
1199.. Click Send.
The send is complete.
See Also
Send an Email
Send Flow
Interactions
Salesforce Data Extensions in Marketing Cloud Connect
Dynamic Sender Profile
With Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement, map Salesforce attributes with
Engagement preference attributes. Send emails to reports or campaigns from multiple email addresses
using sender profiles.
Send Classifications are user-specified email parameter templates that allow you to pre-define a delivery
profile, sender profile, and CAN-SPAM classification. Send classifications are reusable, and are combined
with content and audience information to quickly create email sends. A sender profile is a record where
you specify the from-information for a send in a central location. The sender profile reuses that
information across multiple sends, without needing to select it each time.
For example, a Northern Trail Outfitters marketer wants to create personalized email sends to their
contacts using the names of specific customer service representatives. While the content of the send is
the same for all recipients, the marketer wants the From Name to be customized for each recipient. The
marketer creates FromName and FromEmail attributes in Engagement for the customers to hold the
From information they want to include in the send. These attributes correspond to fields in the Sales
Cloud. Then the marketer creates a sender profile that uses AMPscript to dynamically pull information
from the subscriber attributes populated by Sales Cloud information. If no attribute information is
present, the sender profile uses system default information.
To use dynamic sender profiles with Marketing Cloud Connect, create and map attributes across clouds,
and build a sender profile with those attributes. When sending the email, override the default sender
profile with the custom sender profile you created.
See Also
Map Attribute Fields
Send Classifications for Marketing Cloud Email
Profile and Preference Attributes in Marketing Cloud
Send Email Messages from Multiple Addresses Via Sender Profiles and Data Extensions
Introduction to Programmatic Marketing Content
Tokenized Sending Across Clouds
Tokenized Sending lets you use data for your messages that is deemed too sensitive to store in Salesforce
199

=== PAGE 204 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
due to laws, regulations, or security policies. To protect sensitive information across clouds, use
tokenized sending with Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
For example, sensitive information can include:
•
Personally Identifiable Information (PII)
•
Protected Health Information (PHI)
•
Any other information you prefer to retain on your own servers
The tokenized sending process transmits information from your data systems to Engagement at send
time using an API call. Data is never stored in Salesforce. Instead, your Salesforce org stores a single
token, resembling a standard email address, per subscriber. Each token can contain a collection of
attributes about that subscriber. Sensitive data received from the token exchange is discarded from
memory and not retained in Marketing Cloud. However, all tracking and deliverability data is available in
Engagement, identified by the subscriber key.
If tokenized sending is provisioned for your account, keep these considerations in mind when using it
with Marketing Cloud Connect.
•
Recommended for use only with new accounts.
•
Works with all Engagement account types using subscriber keys.
•
Contact, Lead, and Person Account records in Sales and Service Clouds must use the token as the
main email address.
Review all other Engagement considerations and best practices for tokenized sending.
Warning When using tokenized sending with Marketing Cloud Connect, the standard email address
field for contacts and leads is populated with a token. This token can cause non-Engagement
(traditional CRM) emails to not send correctly. To avoid disruption if you enable tokenized sending,
send all emails from Sales or Service Cloud through Marketing Cloud Connect or send directly from
Engagement.
See Also
Tokenized Sending
Tracking and Analytics
Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement tracking information is located in multiple
places in Sales or Service Cloud. Use tracking data directly from Engagement for your business-critical
processes. Marketing Cloud Connect tracking data is a subset of all tracking data available for a send and
is a replication of data from Engagement.
•
Single-send objects, such as Lead, Contact, and Person Account records, provide tracking information
about individual records. Go to a specific lead, contact, or person account to view tracking for a single
send. Two related lists provide detailed information about Individual Email Results and Email Sends for
that specific record.
•
The Email Sends tab provides a record of each email send with tracking information.
200

=== PAGE 205 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
•
The Send Analytics tab provides reports on historical and time-based engagement for aggregate,
email, or subscriber data.
Types of tracking include:
•
Aggregate Level
This tracking provides a comprehensive summary of email send statistics and is available on the Email
Send record.
•
Individual Level
This tracking provides email performance information at the Contact or Lead level. It’s viewed in the
Individual Email Result record, accessible from the Related List on the Email Send record or from the
Contact or Lead record.
•
Track Link Details
This optional data on individual lead or contact link tracking, such as links clicked, is stored in the CRM
and it consumes more storage. Link Level Detail is also tracked at the aggregate level.
•
Track Sent Events
This optional data on individual subscriber-level tracking data is stored in the CRM after an email is
sent. This tracking option can consume a large amount of data. If this option isn’t selected, the data is
stored in the CRM after a subscriber opens an email or clicks a link.
Tracking data returned to Sales Cloud from Engagement doesn’t count toward API limits.
Here's a list of returned tracking tables.
•
Aggregate: SOAP and Rest APIs - Not Counted
•
Individual Email Results: SOAP and Rest APIs - Not Counted
•
Aggregate Link-Level Details: SOAP and Rest APIs - Not Counted
•
Individual Link-Level Details: BULK API - Not Counted
Email Send Records
In Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement, go to the Email Send tab in Sales or
Service Cloud to access a specific Email Send record. An Email Send record includes related lists with
tracking information on individual email results, aggregate link level details, and support requests that
have been opened for the send.
•
Tracking data is typically available within a few hours after the send, depending on send volume and
system load. Use the Request Tracking Immediately option to expedite it.
•
Deleting an email send also deletes individual email results, aggregate link level details, and any
support requests associated with the send.
•
If needed, initiate a support request on a send.
•
If the send wasn’t successful, only the support request is available.
This information is included in an email send record.
201

=== PAGE 206 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Section Description
Email Send Detail Detailed information about the email send,
including a system-generated number that
identifies the record.
Email Info Information about the sender, business units, and
recipient opt-in information.
Tracking Info Job details and send performance statistics
including delivery rate, open rates, and click-
through rates.
Related Individual Result Reports
•
Sent
•
Delivered
•
Opened
•
Did not open
•
Clicked
•
Did not click
•
Hard Bounced
•
Soft Bounced
System Info States who created the email send and when it
was sent.
Individual Email Results This list of recipients is linked to more detailed
information about each individual.
Aggregate Link Level Details A listing of links that were clicked and click
information. This listing is linked to more detailed
information about link activity.
Support Requests A list of Support Requests that were initiated
against this email send.
Email Send Statuses
When completing email sends through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement, the
status of the email send in Engagement can differ from the status in Sales or Service Cloud. These
statuses are based on the latest managed package.
Tip Email status is listed in these locations:
•
The Send Status field on the email send detail page in Sales or Service Cloud
•
The Status column of the Tracking page in Engagement
202

=== PAGE 207 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Status in Marketing Cloud Status in Sales or Service Cloud Description
-- Scheduled The Salesforce send definition is
created and scheduled to send
in Sales Cloud only.
Pending, Scheduled Queued for Processing The scheduled send reached the
designated send time and is
awaiting the Sales Cloud
workflow to call sync subscribers.
In Process Processing Data The sync subscribers request is
processing.
Scheduled Send Queued The send is queued in
Engagement.
In Process Sending The request to queue the send
in Engagement is complete. The
send can’t be canceled.
Completed Pending Tracking Subscription Engagement completed the
send, but it isn’t subscribed for
tracking yet.
Completed Completed Engagement notified Sales
Cloud that the send is complete.
Paused Paused The send is paused in
Engagement.
Failed Failed The send failed, and an error
message provides details.
Canceled Canceled The Salesforce send definition is
canceled.
Deleted Deleted The send is deleted in
Engagement.
Send Analytics
Access the Marketing Cloud Connect Send Analytics tab within the Sales or Service Cloud. This tab
provides aggregate tracking data for all sends, specific subscriber activities, and specific email send
activities. Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement reports are based on tracking data
stored in the CRM.
203

=== PAGE 208 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Data Description
Historical Engagement Historical Engagement displays aggregate data
beginning on the date the account was created to
the present. This section contains the total
number of subscribers to whom emails were sent,
delivered emails, bounced emails, unique opens,
unique clicks, and total clicks.
Time Based Engagement Time Based Engagement displays data for a
specified time. Specify a time period to see data
on the total number of emails sent, emails
delivered, bounces, unique opens, and unique
clicks. Because Sales or Service Cloud doesn’t
store the date and time a subscriber clicks a link,
this data is calculated using the original last-
clicked date.
Aggregate Analytics Select Aggregate to see data for the number of
total opens. This data isn’t shown in subscriber
analytics. The Sales or Service Cloud tracks
whether an email is opened, not how many times
a specific subscriber opens it.
Subscriber Analytics
Select Subscriber to view data for a specific
subscriber.
•
Date of first email sent to the subscriber.
•
Date of the most recent email sent to the
subscriber.
•
Date the subscriber unsubscribed, if applicable.
•
Date the subscriber was created.
Email Analytics
Select Email to view data about a specific email.
•
Number of emails sent. This data refers to the
number of send definitions containing the
specified email and not the number of
subscribers to whom an email was sent.
•
Number of total opens. This data isn’t shown in
subscriber analytics. The Sales or Service Cloud
tracks whether an email is opened, but doesn’t
track how many times a specific subscriber
opens it.
204

=== PAGE 209 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Data Description
•
Date the email was first sent.
•
Date the email was most recently sent.
Manage Data Storage
Use Tracking Data Cleanup to manage the storage of Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud
Engagement tracking data in Sales or Service Cloud. Managing storage data helps reduce data storage
costs.
Note Tracking data only shows for emails that are older than the expiration date. This date is set
based on the Number of Days to Track field in Marketing Cloud Connect configuration. For example,
if you enter 200 for Number of Days to Track, tracking data isn’t available to manage until 200 days
after the email send date. Tracking generated by a Triggered Send Definition is not included in this
tool.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, navigate to the Marketing Cloud tab.
22.. Click Configure Marketing Cloud Connector.
33.. Click Tracking Data Cleanup.
44.. Select the tracking data to delete.
55.. Click Delete Selected Tracking Data.
Note To delete all tracking data, click Delete All Tracking Data.
66.. In the dialog box, select the types of data to delete.
Tip Individual Email Results provides email performance information at the Contact or Lead level.
Aggregate Link Details provides a comprehensive summary of email send statistics.
77.. If needed, select a filter option to delete tracking information for Individual Email Results.
88.. To receive confirmation of the data cleanup, add email addresses.
99.. Confirm that you understand that this action permanently deletes the selected send tracking data.
1100.. Click Delete.
If you added email addresses, Marketing Cloud Connect sends a confirmation after the tracking data
cleanup completes.
Custom Settings for the Tracking Data Cleanup Tool
In Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement, the Tracking Data Cleanup Tool includes
custom settings for batch size and cascade-delete.
To access the settings for batch size and cascade-delete, in Setup, go to Custom Settings. Then click
Manage for ET4AE Configuration.
205

=== PAGE 210 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Field Description
Enable Cascade-Delete Automatically delete parent and child tracking
data records when using the Tracking Data
Cleanup Tool. To avoid Apex governor limits on
batch delete jobs, disable cascade-delete.
Tracking Data Cleanup Batch Size Enter the number of records to delete per batch.
Delete up to 2,000 records per batch. We
recommend a batch size of 200. If you input a
number less than 1, the batch size defaults to 1. If
you enter a number greater than 2,000, the batch
size defaults to 200.
Consider both the speed of tracking data deletion and Apex governor limits when you configure these
settings. Larger batch sizes require less time overall because fewer iterations are used to delete the
records. However, larger batch sizes risk reaching Apex governor limits. For example, if your custom
trigger or code causes errors, reduce the batch size and try again.
Deferment Notices
Deferment occurs when an account using Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement is
unable to authenticate or contact Sales or Service Cloud when attempting to share tracking data or
synchronizing data from Sales or Service Cloud.
When a customer initiates a send, the send is subscribed for tracking. In all Marketing Cloud Connect
accounts, an email notification is sent to the designated internal recipient when Marketing Cloud
Connect tracking encounters an issue that must be resolved.
When a customer synchronizes data from Sales or Service Cloud and a deferment occurs, the
synchronization pauses for six hours. A message appears on the Sync Activity page.
The process repeats every six hours until resolution occurs.
Deferred accounts are sent an email outlining the reason, which can include the following:
•
Invalid Credentials
The connection between Engagement and Sales or Service Cloud couldn’t be completed due to invalid
or expired credentials. Check and update the Salesforce System (Tracking) User credentials.
•
Storage Limit Exceeded
If your account is out of space, tracking can’t create records. To resolve this issue, delete data within
your account or contact Salesforce to request more storage space. Manage tracking data easily using
the Marketing Cloud Connect Tracking Data Management tool.
•
Request Limit Exceeded
If your account exceeds the Concurrent API limit, API calls to your org are suspended. Accounts are
allotted a specific number of API calls, measured during any 24-hour period.
206

=== PAGE 211 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Consult the System Overview or “API Calls Made Within Last 7 Days” report to help investigate the reason
for deferment.
See Also
Authentication Between Clouds
API Request Limits and Allocations
Marketing Cloud Connect Features
Learn about edition compatibility with Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement and
what features are available.
Connector Versions for Engagement
Connector Version Marketing Cloud Connect
Integration Version Notes Our newest version, previously called V5, is for all
Engagement customers using Salesforce
Enterprise Edition or later.
Supported Marketing Cloud Packages
Engagement Package Marketing Cloud Connect
Basic
Pro
Corporate
Enterprise
Supported Engagement Editions
Engagement Edition (Legacy Terminology) Marketing Cloud Connect
Core
Advanced
Agency
Enterprise 1.0 Lock & Publish See Note
Enterprise 1.0 On Your Behalf See Note
Enterprise 2.0
Marketing Cloud Sandbox
Note Enterprise 1.0 Lock & Publish account functions as a Core account for compatibility with
Marketing Cloud Connect. Enterprise 1.0 On Your Behalf isn’t supported. Customers can simulate
207

=== PAGE 212 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
the On Your Behalf use case by sending from the record owner. The record owner can see tracking.
Supported Salesforce Editions
Salesforce Edition Marketing Cloud Connect
Professional -
Enterprise
Performance
Unlimited
Salesforce Developer Edition Sandbox
Note CloudForce.com and Lightning Platform orgs aren't supported. Enable Custom Platform Events
in your org to ensure that the managed package installs correctly.
Supported User Interfaces
User Interface Marketing Cloud Connect
Salesforce Classic
Lightning Experience See note
Note Lightning Experience isn’t supported for Marketing Cloud Connect features. Those using
Lightning Experience with Salesforce are automatically redirected to Salesforce Classic when
Marketing Cloud Connect tabs are clicked.
Account Configuration Features
Account Configuration Marketing Cloud Connect
Manage Business Units in Salesforce
(Enterprise 2.0)
Manage Tracking Data Storage Options
Manage Reply To Options
Manage Subscriber Visibility Options
Scope by User and
Non-Scope by User
Manage Send Classifications
Connected App Authentication
208

=== PAGE 213 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Account Configuration Marketing Cloud Connect
Multi-Org Configuration
Subscriber Features
Subscribers Marketing Cloud Connect
Profile Center
(email only)
Custom Profile Center Recommended for Journey Builder customers
Subscription Center
(Marketing Cloud based sends)
Custom Subscription Center Recommended
Engagement Subscriber Status Source All Subs list
Engagement-CRM Subscriber Status Sync Unsubscribes
Subscriber Key
Data Extensions and Data Relationships
(sending only)
Synchronized Data Extensions (CRM data synced
to Engagement)
Suppression Lists
Send Logging
SmartCapture Requires custom Services engagement
Email Content Features
Content Marketing Cloud Connect
Dynamic Content
Personalization Strings
Email Send Preview
(static and dynamic)
209

=== PAGE 214 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Content Marketing Cloud Connect
AMPscript
Email Attachments
(requires AMPscript)
Sender Authentication Package
International Sends
A/B Testing
Interaction Features
Interactions Marketing Cloud Connect
Triggered Emails
Automation
Automated Interaction Management (AIM) - Engagement email only (imports and user-
Parent of Activities and Programs; reporting, initiated sends)
queries, extracts, scheduling
Distributed Sending -
Journey Builder Integration Features
Journey Builder Integration Marketing Cloud Connect
Salesforce Entry Events
Custom Salesforce Entry Events
Sales and Service Activities
Custom Sales and Service Activities
Salesforce CRM Features
More Features in Salesforce CRM Marketing Cloud Connect
Segmentation / Target Audiences Campaign / Reports
Single Sends
Leads / Contacts / Person Accounts
Salesforce Exclusions ✔
Marketing Cloud Suppression Lists -
Multiple Audience / Exclusions
210

=== PAGE 215 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
More Features in Salesforce CRM Marketing Cloud Connect
View Sent Email Template
Global Resubscribe
Remove Duplicate Subscribers (dedupe)
Dynamic Owner Send "From" user record owner or
alias
Send Classifications
Send to Salesforce Reports or Campaigns from
Engagement
Salesforce Object mapping: Support for
Personalization and Dynamic Content
Salesforce Object Sending: Sendable Custom -
Objects and Entities
Detailed Error Logging
Sending Log
Campaign Member Management
Quick Link to Engagement
Quick Link to Engagement Email Editor
Salesforce Mobile App Access -
Tracking Features
Tracking Marketing Cloud Connect
View Tracking data at the individual and aggregate
level (including sends, delivered, bounces (hard,
soft, technical), unique opens, total opens, unique
clicks, total clicks, and unsubscribes)
View link level detail at the individual
and aggregate level (including email name, date
sent, date opened, number of clicks, and number
of unique clicks)
Rolling or scheduled tracking data updates
Request tracking data on-demand
211

=== PAGE 216 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Tracking Marketing Cloud Connect
Tracking suppression
(configurable per job or globally)
View tracking data using charts, graphs, and
reports
Journey Builder Engagement Data
See Also
Salesforce Editions
Marketing Cloud Release Notes
A/B Test Email Sends
Use A/B Testing through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement to test differences
in emails and determine which version of an email performs best. Access A/B test options through the
Marketing Cloud tab in the Sales or Service Cloud. Select a test type: subject lines, emails, content areas,
from names, or send dates and times. Then set up a test of two versions for the type selected. For
example, a test two unique subject lines for one send. The A/B test sends each version to a random
segment of the message recipients. Then it measures the open and click performance, selects the best
performer, and sends the winning option to the remaining recipients.
Important List building and splitting occur when you save the A/B send definition. If you use a date
time split, there’s a time gap between list building and the actual email send. Subscribers who
unsubscribe during this gap still receive the email. To avoid this scenario, schedule the sends as
close as possible to the time you save the A/B send definition.
When setting up an A/B test, you can send the winning version to the remaining recipients automatically
when the system determines the winner. Or, you can manually select a winner and send the remainder. If
you select the system to determine the winner automatically and the test ends in a tie, option A is
automatically declared as the winner.
You can enter an email address to receive email notifications during the test to monitor the progress.
Enter an email address to receive notifications and select which to receive:
•
When an email is sent to the conditions you defined
•
When a winner is declared
•
When an email is sent to the remainder
•
If an error occurs
Note A/B test notification emails come from the Marketing Cloud Global notification account.
212

=== PAGE 217 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
A/B Test Content Area
Follow these steps to A/B test two email content areas for a send through Marketing Cloud Connect
for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
A/B Test Emails
Follow these steps to use an A/B Test on two email messages for a send through Marketing Cloud
Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
A/B Test From Name
Follow these steps to A/B test two From Names for a send through Marketing Cloud Connect for
Marketing Cloud Engagement.
A/B Test Send Date and Time
Follow these steps to A/B test two send dates or times for a send through Marketing Cloud Connect
for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
A/B Test Subject Lines
Follow these steps to A/B test two subject line options for an email send through Marketing Cloud
Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Cancel an A/B Test
Cancel a previously scheduled A/B test through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud
Engagement.
Modify A/B Test Send
Modify a scheduled send of the winning email from automatically to a scheduled time through
Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Select an A/B Test Winner
Manually select the winner of an A/B test through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud
Engagement.
Track A/B Test Results
Access tracking for a Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement A/B test send in Sales
or Service Cloud. View tracking information for test condition A, test condition B, and the remainder
sent. Tracking information includes opens, unique click-through rates, delivery rates, and
unsubscribes.
A/B Test Content Area
Follow these steps to A/B test two email content areas for a send through Marketing Cloud Connect for
Marketing Cloud Engagement.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, navigate to the Marketing Cloud tab.
22.. From the Email Send page, click A/B Tests.
33.. Click New.
44.. Click Content Area.
55.. Enter a name and description.
66.. To select an email, click Find.
Note The email must contain A/B content areas.
213

=== PAGE 218 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
77.. Select an option for Content Area A.
88.. Select an option for Content Area B.
99.. Select the email recipients from reports or campaigns.
1100.. Add reports or campaigns to exclude from the send if needed.
1111.. Select the percentage of recipients to include in the test.
1122.. Select the criteria for determining the winning content area.
1133.. Set a duration of time to determine the winning content area.
1144.. Select whether to send the winning email to the remainder of recipients automatically or manually.
Note Selecting Manually allows you to choose the winner and send the email to the remaining
recipients. Selecting Automatically sends the winning email to the remainder when the winner is
declared or at a scheduled time. If your test ends in a tie, option A is automatically declared as
the winner.
1155.. Select a sender for the email.
1166.. Select a recipient for email replies.
1177.. Set a date and time for the send.
1188.. Enable Dedupe Subscribers if needed.
Note Enabling this flag prevents sending more than one email to the same email address.
1199.. Enter an email address and select options to receive notifications about the test progress.
2200.. Certify that all recipients opted in to receive the email.
2211.. Click Send.
A/B Test Emails
Follow these steps to use an A/B Test on two email messages for a send through Marketing Cloud
Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, navigate to the Marketing Cloud tab.
22.. From the Email Send page, click A/B Tests.
33.. Click New.
44.. Click Email.
55.. Enter a name and description.
66.. Click Find to select an email for Email A.
77.. Click Find to select an alternate email for Email B.
88.. Select to use one subject line or a unique subject line for each email.
99.. Enter the subject line.
1100.. Select the email recipients from reports or campaigns.
1111.. Add reports or campaigns to exclude from the send if needed.
1122.. Select the percentage of recipients to include in the test.
1133.. Select the criteria for determining the winning email.
1144.. Set a duration of time to determine the winning email.
1155.. Select whether to send the winning email to the remainder of recipients automatically or manually.
Note Selecting Manually allows you to choose the winner and send the email to the remaining
recipients. Selecting Automatically sends the winning email to the remainder when the winner is
214

=== PAGE 219 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
declared or at a scheduled time. If your test ends in a tie, option A is automatically declared as
the winner.
1166.. Select a sender for the email.
1177.. Select a recipient for email replies.
1188.. Set a date and time for the send.
1199.. Enable Dedupe Subscribers if needed.
Note Enabling this flag prevents sending more than one email to the same email address.
2200.. Enter an email address and select options to receive notifications about the test progress.
2211.. Certify that all recipients opted in to receive the email.
2222.. Click Send.
A/B Test From Name
Follow these steps to A/B test two From Names for a send through Marketing Cloud Connect for
Marketing Cloud Engagement.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, navigate to the Marketing Cloud tab.
22.. From the Email Send page, click A/B Tests.
33.. Click New.
44.. Click From Name.
55.. Enter a name and description.
66.. To select an email, click Find.
77.. Select an email address or send classification for From Name A.
88.. Select an email address or send classification for From Name B.
99.. Select the email recipients from reports or campaigns.
1100.. Add reports or campaigns to exclude from the send if needed.
1111.. Select the percentage of recipients to include in the test.
1122.. Select the criteria for determining the winning From Name.
1133.. Set a duration of time to determine the winning From Name.
1144.. Select whether to send the winning email to the remainder of recipients automatically or manually.
Note Selecting Manually allows you to choose the winner and send the email to the remaining
recipients. Selecting Automatically sends the winning email to the remainder when the winner is
declared or at a scheduled time. If your test ends in a tie, option A is automatically declared as
the winner.
1155.. Select a sender for the email.
1166.. Select a recipient for email replies.
1177.. Set a date and time for the send.
1188.. Enable Dedupe Subscribers if needed.
Note Enabling this flag prevents sending more than one email to the same email address.
1199.. Enter an email address and select options to receive notifications about the test progress.
2200.. Certify that all recipients opted in to receive the email.
2211.. Click Send.
215

=== PAGE 220 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
A/B Test Send Date and Time
Follow these steps to A/B test two send dates or times for a send through Marketing Cloud Connect for
Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Important List building and splitting occur when you save the A/B send definition. If you use a date
time split, there’s a time gap between list building and the actual email send. Subscribers who
unsubscribe during this gap still receive the email. To avoid this scenario, schedule the sends as
close as possible to the time you save the A/B send definition.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, navigate to the Marketing Cloud tab.
22.. From the Email Send page, click A/B Tests.
33.. Click New.
44.. Click Send Date/Time.
55.. Enter a name and description.
66.. To select an email, click Find.
77.. Select a date and time for Send Date A.
88.. Select a date and time for Send Date B.
99.. Select the email recipients from reports or campaigns.
1100.. Add reports or campaigns to exclude from the send if needed.
1111.. Select the percentage of recipients to include in the test.
1122.. Select the criteria for determining the winning date and time.
1133.. Set a duration of time to determine the winning date and time.
1144.. Select whether to send the winning email to the remainder of recipients automatically or manually.
Note Selecting Manually allows you to choose the winner and send the email to the remaining
recipients. Selecting Automatically sends the winning email to the remainder when the winner is
declared or at a scheduled time. If your test ends in a tie, option A is automatically declared as
the winner.
1155.. Select a sender for the email.
1166.. Select a recipient for email replies.
1177.. Enable Dedupe Subscribers if needed.
Note Enabling this flag prevents sending more than one email to the same email address.
1188.. Enter an email address and select options to receive notifications about the test progress.
1199.. Certify that all recipients opted in to receive the email.
2200.. Click Send.
A/B Test Subject Lines
Follow these steps to A/B test two subject line options for an email send through Marketing Cloud
Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, navigate to the Marketing Cloud tab.
22.. From the Email Send page, click A/B Tests.
216

=== PAGE 221 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
33.. Click New.
44.. Click Subject Line.
55.. Enter a name and description.
66.. To select an email, click Find.
77.. Enter a subject line in Subject A.
88.. Enter an alternative subject line in Subject B.
99.. Select the email recipients from reports or campaigns.
1100.. Add reports or campaigns to exclude from the send if needed.
1111.. Select the percentage of recipients to include in the test.
1122.. Select the criteria for determining the winning subject line.
1133.. Set a duration of time to determine the winning subject line.
1144.. Select whether to save the winning option back to the email.
1155.. Select whether to send the winning email to the remainder of recipients automatically or manually.
Note Selecting Manually allows you to select the winner and send the email. Selecting
Automatically sends the winning email to the remainder when the winner is declared or at a
scheduled time. If your test ends in a tie, option A is automatically declared as the winner.
1166.. Select a sender for the email.
1177.. Select a recipient for email replies.
1188.. Set a date and time for the send.
1199.. Enable Dedupe Subscribers if needed.
Note Enabling this flag prevents sending more than one email to the same email address.
2200.. Enter an email address and select options if you want to receive notifications about the test progress.
2211.. Certify that all recipients have opted in to receive the email.
2222.. Click Send.
Cancel an A/B Test
Cancel a previously scheduled A/B test through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud
Engagement.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, go to the Marketing Cloud tab.
22.. From the Email Send page, click A/B Tests.
33.. Select an A/B test record.
44.. Click Cancel.
Modify A/B Test Send
Modify a scheduled send of the winning email from automatically to a scheduled time through
Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, go to the Marketing Cloud tab.
22.. From the Email Send page, click A/B Tests.
33.. Select an A/B test record to edit.
44.. Click Edit under Details.
217

=== PAGE 222 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
55.. Click Schedule Now.
66.. Select At a Scheduled Time.
77.. Enter a date and time.
You can’t select a date and time that occurs before the set date and time for declaring a winner.
Select an A/B Test Winner
Manually select the winner of an A/B test through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud
Engagement.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, go to the Marketing Cloud tab.
22.. From the Email Send page, click A/B Tests.
33.. Select an A/B test record.
44.. Select an option as the winner.
The email sends to the remaining recipients.
Track A/B Test Results
Access tracking for a Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement A/B test send in Sales
or Service Cloud. View tracking information for test condition A, test condition B, and the remainder
sent. Tracking information includes opens, unique click-through rates, delivery rates, and unsubscribes.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, go to the Marketing Cloud tab.
22.. From the Email Send page, click A/B Tests.
33.. Select an A/B test record.
44.. To view the email send record for each condition, click Tracking Details.
Automation Studio Support
Marketing Cloud Connect supports automated Salesforce sends through Automation Studio in
Marketing Cloud Engagement by creating a Salesforce send definition. Next, define an automation with
the Send Salesforce Email activity that includes the send definition. After sending, view tracking results in
the Sales or Service Cloud.
Automation Studio is an Engagement application used to execute multi-step marketing and data
management activities on an immediate, triggered, or scheduled basis. Use Automation Studio's
workflow canvas to build simple or multi-step automations.
Using Automation Studio to manage sends to Salesforce reports and campaigns helps maintain a single
view of the customer and manage relationships in Salesforce. For example, schedule standard welcome
email messages to send to all new customers. Then send a personalized follow-up email to new contacts
after a specific interaction. Last, send a notification email to current contacts after a specific event or
interaction.
218

=== PAGE 223 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Data Access Considerations
Manual import activities respect your account configuration for scope by user or non-scope by user.
However, automated import activities in Automation Studio do not respect the scope-by-user
configuration. The automation runs at the Salesforce tracking user’s level of access, which is typically
greater than a regular user's access.
For example, if you manually start an import in Email Studio interactions in the Marketing Cloud, the
import respects a scope-by-user configuration. However, if you schedule an automated import using
Automation Studio in Marketing Cloud Engagement, the import completes as a non-scope-by-user
account configuration.
Consider this data access configuration if you test your imports manually and then schedule the import
in Automation Studio. To see actual results while testing, log in to Engagement as the API user to test the
import manually. This method provides the same results as the scheduled automation.
You cannot create an import activity using a Salesforce report that you do not have permission to access.
For example, reports in the Engagement admin folder in Salesforce are not available for use if you do not
have access to that folder.
See Also
Automation Studio
Permission-Based Access
Marketing Cloud Sends to Campaigns or Reports
Campaign Member Integration
Campaign member integration provides insight into customer engagement behavior with a single view of
a contact or lead, called a subscriber in Marketing Cloud Engagement. View historical results of a
campaign for all email interactions and members, including: date sent, bounce, date bounced, date
opened, date unsubscribed, link name, and last clicked. Customize Marketing Cloud Connect to define
and track events with campaign member status using the Activity or Status field. Plan how values are
mapped to statuses and ensure that they’re available for all campaigns before configuring.
Campaigns are linked to Marketing Cloud Connect Email Sends when an email is sent to a list of
campaign members within CRM. When an email is sent to Salesforce Data Extensions from Engagement,
links to campaigns aren’t created.
Contacts, leads, and person accounts are supported for campaign member integration. When a person
account is added to a campaign, a campaign member record is created. The status of a person account
within a campaign is updated on the campaign member record.
11.. Campaign Member Status Hierarchy
Understand the campaign member status hierarchy for processing rules and how mapped values are
updated through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
22.. Update Campaign Member Page Layout
219

=== PAGE 224 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement, modify the campaign member
page layout to include the Status or Activity field and the activity history.
33.. Configure a Campaign Member Picklist
Through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement, define tracking events by
customizing the campaign member picklist values for the Activity or Status field.
44.. Configure Campaign Member Tracking
Edit the Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement configuration to enable campaign
member tracking and map the status fields.
55.. View Campaign Member Tracking
Through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement, track the status of all campaign
members from the campaign record in Sales or Service Cloud.
Campaign Member Status Hierarchy
Understand the campaign member status hierarchy for processing rules and how mapped values are
updated through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
The processing rules for multiple Individual Email Results updates are based on the following hierarchy.
The mapped values for the tracking events are updated in this order:
•
Sent
•
Soft Bounce
•
Hard Bounce
•
Open
•
Click
•
Unsubscribe
Considerations
•
Updates don’t revert to a previous value.
•
If a contact or lead is resubscribed, the campaign member status or activity field retains an
unsubscribed value.
•
Activity History is based on Individual Email Result and Individual Link Detail records for a contact or
lead from each campaign email sent.
•
Activity and Status field values are used consistently for all campaigns.
Update Campaign Member Page Layout
Through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement, modify the campaign member
page layout to include the Status or Activity field and the activity history.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, click Setup.
22.. Use Quick Find to navigate to Campaign Members.
33.. Click Customize fields on the campaign member page.
44.. Edit the campaign member page layout.
220

=== PAGE 225 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
55.. Drag Section from Fields onto the page layout.
66.. Enter Campaign Member History for Section Name.
77.. Select One-Column format.
88.. Click OK.
99.. Click Visualforce Pages in the page layout options.
1100.. Drag Campaign Member History into the newly created Campaign Member History section.
1111.. If you're using the Activity field to track campaign members, click Fields in the page layout options.
1122.. Drag Activity onto the page layout.
1133.. Save the page layout changes.
Configure a Campaign Member Picklist
Through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement, define tracking events by
customizing the campaign member picklist values for the Activity or Status field.
Note If you’re using the Status field, you don't have to configure the Activity field.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, click Setup.
22.. Use Quick Find to navigate to Campaign Members.
33.. Click Fields.
44.. Click Activity or Status.
55.. Add new values to the picklist.
66.. Customize the Activity or Status field as needed.
Note When you configure the Activity field, add the Picklist values to the individual campaign to
map to the corresponding value created in the Campaign Member fields.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, open the desired Campaign.
22.. Click Advanced Setup.
33.. Click Edit.
44.. Click Add More.
55.. Enter a new Member Status value.
66.. Select Responded, if applicable.
77.. Select Default, if applicable.
Configure Campaign Member Tracking
Edit the Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement configuration to enable campaign
member tracking and map the status fields.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, go to the Marketing Cloud tab.
22.. Click Configure Marketing Cloud Connector.
33.. Click Edit Settings.
44.. Enable Campaign Member Tracking.
221

=== PAGE 226 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
55.. Save the changes.
66.. Click Configure for Campaign Member Tracking.
77.. Map the tracking event to Campaign Member Activity or Status.
88.. Map Engagement subscriber status fields to CRM status or activity picklist values.
99.. Save the configuration.
View Campaign Member Tracking
Through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement, track the status of all campaign
members from the campaign record in Sales or Service Cloud.
To view status and campaign member history, click an individual campaign member.
Dedupe Subscribers
Deduplication prevents sending more than one email to the same email when using reports or
campaigns through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement. To enable this feature
when executing a send, select the Dedupe Subscriber flag.
Consider the following about the Dedupe Subscribers setting:
•
When sending to multiple reports, if the same contact appears in both reports, the contact receives
only one email regardless of whether Dedupe subscribers is selected. For example, you’re sending an
email to two reports, one containing all contacts in the Midwest and the other containing all contacts
in Indianapolis. There is a contact in the Indianapolis report that also appears in the Midwest report.
By default, this contact receives only one email.
•
For a report or campaign that contains two contacts with the same email address and you don’t select
Dedupe Subscribers, both contacts receive an email. For example, two family members both opt into
your email list using the same email address. Two emails are sent to that email address.
•
For a report or campaign that contains two contacts with same email address and you select Dedupe
Subscribers, only the first contact receives the email. For example, a husband and wife both opted into
your email list using the same email address. Only one email is sent to that email address.
Dynamic Send Preview
Use Dynamic Send Preview with Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement to see
personalized content based on real data, such as contacts or leads, in an email before sending. The
preview renders exactly as the email recipient sees it.
Options to preview emails include the ability to view as:
•
Static—View email with AMPscript coding and no personalization
•
Dynamic—View email with all personalization applied
•
Desktop optimized
•
Mobile optimized
222

=== PAGE 227 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
•
HTML
•
Text
Preview an email in these configurations with Dynamic Send Preview.
Dynamic Static
HTML Desktop and Mobile Desktop only
Text Only Desktop and Mobile —
Dynamic Send Preview is available when sending a single Engagement email from a Contact or Lead
record and automatically displays personalized data from that record. It’s also available when sending
from the Email Send tab and allows you to select a single Contact or Lead to preview actual data.
To access the Dynamic Send Preview on the Email Send page, click Preview Email after finding the email
to send. You can change the preview mode on the Send Preview page by selecting dynamic, static,
desktop, mobile, HTML, or Text Only.
Encryption
Enable Encrypted Data Sending (EDS) permissions in Marketing Cloud Engagement to identify encrypted
fields from Sales or Service Cloud using Classic or Platform Encryption. Re-encrypt those fields in
Engagement. Marketing Cloud Connect supports these encryption methods.
•
Classic Encryption
•
Shield Platform Encryption
•
Field-Level Encryption
Combine Classic or Shield Platform Encryption in Sales or Service Cloud with Encrypted Data Sending in
Engagement for cross-cloud data encryption.
Encryption requirement Applicable product
Encrypt specific fields in Engagement with Field-Level Encryption
granularity by data extension
Encrypt custom text fields in Sales or Service Classic Encryption
Clouds
Encrypt certain fields on the Account, Contact, Shield Platform Encryption
Case, and Case Comment objects in Sales or
Service Clouds
Encrypted Sales or Service Cloud Data in Engagement
Sales or Service Cloud encrypted data appears as either unencrypted text or as asterisks in Engagement.
223

=== PAGE 228 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
The data appearance depends on the permissions of the user who completes the send through
Marketing Cloud Connect. Engagement stores encrypted data in the same format that the running user
sees in Sales or Service Cloud.
For example, User A has the View Encrypted Data permission in Sales Cloud, but User B doesn’t. Both
people are Marketing Cloud Connect users. In Sales or Service Cloud, User A sees the encrypted data,
but User B sees masked values, or asterisks, for that data.
If User A sends to a report containing encrypted data, Engagement stores that encrypted data as regular
text. If User B sends to that same report, Engagement stores that encrypted data as asterisks.
Field-Level Encryption
Using Synchronized Data Sources, enable Field-Level Encryption permissions in Engagement to identify
encrypted fields from Sales or Service Cloud. Then re-encrypt those fields in Engagement. Use this
synchronized data in messages sent through Engagement.
Synchronized Data Sources doesn’t support Shield-encrypted dates or datetimes.
Considerations
•
Engagement always encrypts the email address field when sending from the Sales and Service Cloud
with Field-Level Encryption enabled. This encryption occurs regardless of whether the Sales or Service
Cloud encrypts that field or if you don’t enable Shield Platform or Classic Encryption.
•
Engagement denotes email addresses as read-only in the All Subscribers list and profile center when
Field-Level Encryption is enabled. To allow subscribers to update their email address with EDS
enabled, map a new profile attribute to the Lead and Contact email address. Include the attribute in
the profile center.
See Also
Field-Level Encryption in Marketing Cloud
Classic Encryption for Custom Fields
Strengthen Your Data's Security with Shield Platform Encryption
Journey Builder Integration
Journey Builder is a Marketing Cloud Engagement application used for creating responsive automated
multichannel campaigns. Use Journey Builder to design a communication plan that reaches customers at
every stage of their journey with your brand. Configure Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud
Engagement in your org to access specific Journey Builder features within the Sales or Service Cloud. For
example, add a lead, contact, or a user to a journey, or update a Salesforce object as a step in the
journey.
See Also
Sales and Service Cloud Activities
224

=== PAGE 229 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
The Salesforce Data Event
Multi-Org Account Configuration in Marketing Cloud Connect
Multi-Org is an Enterprise 2.0 account configuration. This configuration allows individual Marketing
Cloud Engagement business units to connect with a single Salesforce org, independent of the parent
account or other business units. Using Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement, this
configuration includes two setup scenarios.
Important Multi-org configuration isn’t compatible with Government Cloud. Government Cloud
accounts require a 1:1 relationship.
•
Multiple business units connected to multiple orgs.
We support up to 5 business units to the same Salesforce system user in a multi-org environment. If
you use more than 5 business units, service can be degraded and can negatively impact the servers. If
you must connect more than 5 business units, designate additional system users.
•
Multiple business units connected to a single org.
Multi-Org is available for Enterprise 2.0 accounts. It requires Connected App Authentication and Custom
Profile Centers. Not sure what type of account you have? Review Engagement editions for more
information.
These best practices are recommended when configuring multi-org.
•
Control access to the All Subscribers list.
The All Subscribers list is a comprehensive list of all subscribers, even in a multi-org account. To
prevent users from seeing subscribers outside of an org they can access, remove non-admin users’
access to All Subscribers and use Subscriber Business Unit Filters.
•
Plan your business unit and user connections.
While disconnecting accounts is supported, plan your Salesforce org to Engagement business unit and
user connections carefully before implementation.
•
Use dedicated API users.
Assign each connected business unit a dedicated API user to reduce confusion after connecting. If
multiple business units are connected to the same Salesforce org, use a shared API User.
Warning If you use Synchronized Data Sources with multi-org configuration, when you disconnect a
business unit from Sales or Service Cloud, synchronized data extension names can change. To
ensure that they continue working, update query activities that reference those synchronized data
extensions.
See Also
Business Units in Marketing Cloud
Profile Center Marketing Cloud
Enterprise 1.0 Overview
225

=== PAGE 230 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Upgrade to a Multi-Org Account
With Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement, multi-org accounts offer flexibility, but
upgrading impacts the underlying structure of your Enterprise 2.0 account. Before upgrading, review
these considerations for compatibility. The upgrade requires a minimum of 2 hours.
Before you begin, ensure that your account meets these requirements.
•
Enterprise 2.0 Engagement account with multi-org is enabled.
•
Marketing Cloud Connect managed package version 5.494 or later is installed.
•
Your Engagement admin configures your custom profile.
•
Multiple Sales or Service Cloud orgs exist.
•
Licenses are available for Engagement API users and Salesforce system users.
•
Multi-org doesn’t support custom fields in webcollect. If the form contains custom fields, we can’t
collect the data supplied by the subscribers.
Important You can’t turn off multi-org after it’s turned on.
11.. Log a support ticket in Salesforce Help for the upgrade.
22.. Pause all Engagement email sends through the Sales or Service Cloud until the upgrade completes.
33.. If you use Synchronized Data Sources, pause data synchronization across clouds until the upgrade
completes.
Important When using multi-org with Synchronized Data Sources, ensure that the tracking user is
connected to less than five business units.
44.. To improve performance, after you upgrade to multi-org in an existing account, reconnect previously
connected business units.
See Also
Upgrade to Connected App
Profile Center Marketing Cloud
Multi-Org Account and User Configuration
Through Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement, multi-org supports connections for
one Engagement business unit to one Sales or Service Cloud org. Multi-org also supports many
Engagement business units to one Sales or Service Cloud org. Multi-org doesn’t support connections for
a single business unit to multiple Sales or Service Cloud orgs, or business units of multiple Enterprise 2.0
accounts to the same org. Multi-org supports various user mappings based on these business unit
configurations.
226

=== PAGE 231 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Multi-Org User Configurations
A single Engagement user can access multiple Engagement business units. Business unit access
determines the ability to access multiple orgs.
•
You can’t map a single Engagement user to more than one Sales or Service Cloud user within one org.
In this example, U1 is mapped to UA and can’t be mapped to any other user in the same org, shown
by broken line 1.
•
You can’t map an Engagement user to a Sales or Service Cloud user if that org is connected to a
business unit that the Engagement user can’t access. In this example, U2 doesn’t have access to BU2,
so U2 can’t map to UC, shown by broken line 2.
•
You can map users to multiple orgs through multiple business units. However, users can access only
227

=== PAGE 232 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
the org that is connected to the business unit that the user is logged in to. In this example, U1 can
access BU1 and BU2, but can’t map to UC while logged in to BU1, shown by broken line 3. U1 must log
in to BU2 to connect to UC.
•
An unconnected Engagement user accesses Engagement only. In this example, U3 can’t access Sales
or Service Cloud orgs.
•
You can map an Engagement user to the same Sales or Service Cloud user if the Engagement user can
access multiple connected business units. In this example, user U1 accesses multiple business units in
the same Enterprise 2.0 account. These business units are connected to the same Sales or Service
Cloud org. U1 can connect to the same Sales or Service Cloud user UA through either business unit.
•
You can’t map multiple Engagement users to the same Sales or Service Cloud user. In this example, U2
is connected to UB, so U3 and U4 can’t connect to UB.
Multi-Org Examples
These Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement scenarios show guidelines for
disconnecting and reconnecting multi-org accounts.
228

=== PAGE 233 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Multiple Business Units Connected to Multiple Orgs
In this example, both business units, BU1 and BU2, belong to the same Enterprise 2.0 account. Each
business unit is connected to a unique Sales or Service Cloud org, ORGA and ORGB, using connected
app authentication. A user has access to the following:
•
BU1 and BU2 through Engagement user account, U1.
•
ORGA through Sales or Service Cloud user account, UA.
•
ORGB through Sales or Service Cloud account, UB.
If BU1 and ORGA are disconnected, U1 and UA are disconnected. However, if BU2 and ORGB remain
connected, and U1 remains connected to UB through BU2, then BU1, ORGA, U1, and UA can reconnect.
229

=== PAGE 234 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Multiple Business Units Connected to a Single Org
In this example, both business units, BU1 and BU2, belong to the same Enterprise 2.0 account. Both
business units are connected to the same Sales or Service Cloud Org, ORGA, using connected app
authentication. A user, U1, has access to both business units. Because both business units are connected
to ORGA, U1 must be connected to the same Sales or Service Cloud user account, UA.
If BU1 and ORGA are disconnected, U1 and UA are disconnected in BU1. U1 remains connected to UA in
BU2. BU2 remains connected to ORGA. BU1, ORGA, U1, and UA can reconnect using the multi-org
connection rules.
Other Scenarios
Business units can’t be connected or disconnected independently of the parent account in non-multi-org
accounts. Disconnecting the parent account disconnects all child business units and connected users.
The ability to disconnect an Engagement account from the Sales or Service Cloud account is only
available for Enterprise 2.0, Core, and Lock & Publish accounts. Install Marketing Cloud Connect package
version 5.493+. The Marketing Cloud Connect account must use connected app authentication.
Profile Center and Marketing Cloud Connect
Use the Profile Center with Marketing Cloud Connect. Create custom fields in the Sales or Service Cloud
and map them to Marketing Cloud Engagement attributes for use in the Profile Center. Every
Engagement email to a Salesforce contact, lead, report, or campaign includes a link to the Profile Center
where customers manage their attributes and subscription preferences. These changes update
Salesforce contact and lead data. You can also manage the opt-in preference on behalf of leads and
contacts using Marketing Cloud Connect.
230

=== PAGE 235 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
This Profile Center is based on the Engagement attributes that are mapped to fields in Sales or Service
Cloud. Data extensions aren’t supported with the default Profile Center.
11.. Create custom fields in Sales or Service Cloud to input preferences.
22.. Create profile and preference attributes in Engagement that align with the custom preference fields in
Sales or Service Cloud.
33.. Map Engagement attributes to the custom fields in Sales or Service Cloud.
44.. Preview how the Profile Center looks to the email recipient.
See Also
Create Custom Fields for Preferences
Profile and Preference Attributes in Marketing Cloud
Map Attribute Fields
Profile Center Marketing Cloud
Create Custom Fields for Preferences
Create custom fields in Sales or Service Cloud for the communication preferences you want to include in
the Profile Center to use with Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement. You can create
different custom fields for contacts and leads.
11.. In Sales Service Cloud, click Setup.
22.. Under Build, click Customize.
33.. Under Contacts or Leads, click Fields.
44.. Create a custom field.
55.. Select the Checkbox data type.
66.. Click Next.
77.. Leave the default value set to Unchecked.
88.. Enter the field, label, description, and attributes of the field and click Next.
99.. Set the security levels for your field and click Next.
1100.. Select the location of your field.
1111.. Save the field.
Reports
View a list of standard Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement reports and report
types.
Standard Marketing Cloud Connect Reports
These standard Marketing Cloud Connect reports are located in their respective Salesforce reports folder.
Marketing Cloud Connect Admin
•
IERs (for an Email Send)
231

=== PAGE 236 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
•
IERs Delivered (for an Email Send)
•
IERs Not Opened (for an Email Send)
•
IERs Opened (for an Email Send)
•
IERs with Clicks (for an Email Send)
•
IERs with Hard Bounces (for Email Send)
•
IERs without Clicks (for an Email Send)
•
Outstanding Sends
Marketing Cloud Connect Subscriber Reports
•
Campaign Performance over Time
•
Email Sends by User over Time
•
Subscriber Engagement over Time
•
Unengaged Subscribers over Time
Marketing Cloud Connect Tracking Reports
•
Recent Email Sending Summary
Standard Marketing Cloud Connect Report Types
These report types are available to create your own reports.
•
Aggregate Link Level Details
•
Aggregate Link Level Details with Send Definition
•
Individual Email Results
•
Individual Email Results with Contacts
•
Individual Email Results with Leads
•
Individual Email Results with Send Definition
•
Individual Link Level Details
•
Individual Link Level Details with Individual Email Result
•
Email Sends
•
Email Sends with Campaign
•
Email Sends with Exclusion Campaign
•
Email Sends with Contact
•
Email Sends with Lead
•
Email Sends with A/B Test
•
Email Sends with Support Requests
•
Email Send History
•
AB Tests
•
Users with or without Email Sends
See Also
Schedule Reports in Salesforce Classic
232

=== PAGE 237 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Salesforce Data Extensions in Marketing Cloud Connect
A data extension is a table that contains your data. With Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud
Engagement, push tracking data from Engagement back to your Sales or Service Cloud orgs using a
Salesforce data extension (SFDE). Push any tracking data for emails sent to SFDE audiences using
Salesforce Sends to the Salesforce Contact or Lead record in the connected org. An SFDE can use the
same Engagement segmentation and filtering tools as a standard data extension. Data extensions
created from sends to reports or campaigns have a hard-coded retention policy of 5 days.
Note Connect users to the CRM on their User Detail record in Engagement to access this
functionality. The User Detail record shows Integrated for Salesforce.com Status.
Prerequisites
Before you get started with Salesforce data extensions, check the subscriber key, Email field, and field
names.
•
Use an 18-digit Salesforce Contact or Lead ID (not 15-digit) to map to the subscriber key. If the report
field containing the Contact or Lead ID is called Contact ID or Lead ID, subscriber Keys automatically
convert from 15 to 18 digits. A field labeled 'ID' uses the 15-digit Contact or Lead ID, which can result
in duplicate IDs in Engagement. Contact or Lead IDs that are imported into a standard data extension
using a manual flat file import aren’t automatically converted from a 15-digit to an 18-digit subscriber
key.
•
To import into an SFDE, the email field must be set to type 'email address'. If not, the report is
imported into a standard data extension and tracking isn’t returned to the Sales or Service Cloud.
•
Field names can’t contain the ? or % characters.
Importing Salesforce Data Extensions
Import Salesforce data extensions into Engagement through Interactions. Create import activities with
accessible Sales or Service Cloud reports. For example, if you can’t access a report in Engagement, you
can’t access it in the Marketing Cloud Admin folder of Sales or Service Cloud.
Manual and automated imports behave differently in scope-by-user accounts:
•
Manual import activities respect scoping, so the number of records that appear in the report are
specific to the user who is running the import.
•
All automated import activities are executed as the Marketing Cloud API user. Therefore, the number
of records reflect the Salesforce system user’s (tracking user) level of access to data.
With non-scope-by-user accounts, imports return results based on the Salesforce system user’s data
access.
See Also
Permission-Based Access
233

=== PAGE 238 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Data Extensions with Enhanced Subscriber Features in Marketing Cloud
Create a Data Extension in Email Studio (Enhanced)
Send to a Salesforce Data Extension or Filter
With Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement, sending to a Salesforce data extension
or filter is a two-step process. First, create a Salesforce send email definition and then schedule the send.
Create a Send Definition
11.. In Engagement, go to Email Studio.
22.. Under Interactions, click Salesforce Send Emails.
33.. Click Create.
44.. Enter a name.
55.. Under Messages, select the email.
66.. Select a send classification.
77.. Click Edit Recipients.
88.. Expand Salesforce Data Extensions, and select the data extension or filter.
99.. Add the selection to Targeted.
1100.. Save the definition.
Send to a Salesforce Data Extension or Filter
11.. In Engagement, go to Email Studio.
22.. Under Interactions, click Salesforce Send Emails.
33.. Select the Salesforce data extension or filter.
44.. Click Send.
55.. Select to send immediately or schedule a time to send.
66.. Certify opt in.
77.. Click Send.
Salesforce Sends
There are many benefits of using the Salesforce Sends option in Marketing Cloud Engagement through
Marketing Cloud Connect. Keep sending behavior consistent between Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, and
Engagement. Share tracking data from Engagement by selecting the Salesforce Sends option within
Email Studio Interactions.
When you use Salesforce Sends to create profile attributes for new subscribers, they aren’t available for
grouping and filtering because this data isn’t synchronized or maintained through sending. To filter and
group by profile attributes, use Synchronized Data Extensions.
Salesforce Send benefits include:
234

=== PAGE 239 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
•
Subscriber records are stored in the All Subscribers list instead of the managed list, providing more
opportunities for future communications.
•
Each send includes enhanced status updates.
•
Administrators can better organize and access send definitions that are based in the Sales Cloud,
Service Cloud, or Engagement with extra storage location.
Not seeing Salesforce Sends? Connect users to the CRM on their User Detail record of Engagement to
access this functionality. The Salesforce.com Status of the User Detail Record shows Integrated.
Subscriber Key
A subscriber key is a text field that contains a value that uniquely identifies a subscriber in your Marketing
Cloud Engagement account. Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement uses the
subscriber key to identify the Sales or Service Cloud record associated with the tracking data returned
from Engagement.
The Contact ID, Lead ID, and User ID are converted into the 18-digit subscriber key that is stored in
Engagement during sends. These IDs must be included when sending to reports, campaigns, or
Salesforce data extensions through Marketing Cloud Connect.
Best Practices for Sending from Multiple Clouds
•
Send to a Sales or Service Cloud report, campaign, or Salesforce data extension when sending through
Marketing Cloud Connect.
•
If manually importing Sales or Service Cloud data files into Engagement, create a custom formula field
for Contact and Lead records to generate an 18-digit ID based on the Contact ID, Lead ID, or User ID.
Use a text field and input "CASESAFEID(Id)" as the formula, with the Contact or Lead ID in
parentheses. When exporting data out of Sales or Service Cloud to import into Marketing Cloud,
include this value to use as the subscriber key.
•
Send only from a single cloud for each subscriber. For example, use Sales Cloud to send to subscribers
who exist first as a contact or lead. Use Engagement to send to subscribers who didn’t originate in
Sales Cloud.
•
If you want to send to the same recipients from both Engagement and Sales or Service Cloud,
implement extra measures to manage subscriptions across clouds. Contact your Engagement account
executive for further assistance.
See Also
Subscriber Key in Marketing Cloud
Synchronized Data Sources
Use Synchronized Data Sources with Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement to
access data from Sales and Service Clouds in Engagement for use in your marketing activities. As changes
occur in the Sales or Service Cloud, Engagement receives those updates.
235

=== PAGE 240 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
To use this feature, enable these prerequisites:
•
Marketing Cloud Connect installed and configured using version 5.493 or later
•
Updated Salesforce System user
See Also
Create Synchronized Data Sources in Contact Builder
Synchronized Data Sources in Contact Builder
Edit Synchronization Settings
Synchronized Data Sources Best Practices
Follow these best practices to synchronize data into Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud
Engagement using Synchronized Data Sources.
Synchronize Only Necessary Fields
Synchronize only the information necessary for your Engagement activities because the process required
to synchronize more fields slows performance. We recommend no more than 20 fields per object for
optimum performance. If more fields are required, limit the maximum number of fields per object to
250.
Add Fields into Your Synchronized Data Sources from the Original Source
Add fields and update rows in your Sales or Service Cloud source before you synchronize the data with
Marketing Cloud Engagement. After you complete this process, add the fields within the synchronized
data source in Engagement. This best practice prevents synchronizing fields with empty values and then
synchronizing more values. You don’t need to refresh or pause your data sources as part of this step.
Delete Fields from Your Engagement Synchronized Data Sources First
Remove the field from your Engagement synchronized data source first before the original source. This
step prevents you from including out-of-date data in your marketing activities. When you delete a field
from the Salesforce source first, that data remains in the Engagement data source. You receive a warning
about the lack of updates, but the most recent version of the synchronized data remains in your account.
Disconnect Your Synchronized Data Sources Connection for Sandbox
Instances Only
If you refresh a sandbox instance, disconnect and reconnect your account. Don’t disconnect and
reconnect the production account as part of normal business activities.
236

=== PAGE 241 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Pause Your Synchronized Data Sources Connection for Major Changes Only
You can pause your Synchronized Data Sources connection and prevent Engagement from receiving
updated information. Only pause when you make significant data or architecture changes to the
Salesforce source. After you complete the changes, resume the synchronization process. If the pause
lasts longer than 15 days, you must refresh the data source.
Refresh Your Synchronized Data Sources Connection When Necessary
Refreshing a synchronized data source entirely clears the Engagement synchronized data extension and
then repopulates the data. To avoid performance issues, only refresh when not performing any sends or
automations using this synchronized data source. Any refresh performed in a multi-org environment
affects all business units integrated using the same active Salesforce System user. Consider all affected
business units before performing the refresh.
Use Synchronized Data Sources in Journey Events
Engagement can’t use synchronized data sources as sendable data extensions. Use a query activity to
move information from a synchronized data source into a sendable data extension. Update the result of
the query activity to ensure that you use the most up-to-date data.
Share Synchronized Data Sources to Business Units
To make synchronized data available at the business-unit level, use a query activity. Move information
from a synchronized data source in the parent account into a shared data extension. Create the query
activity that moves the data into a new data extension. Next, share that new data extension to the
business unit. Update the result of the query activity to ensure that you use the most up-to-date data.
Avoid Breaking the Synchronized Data Sources Synchronization Process
Don’t rename or change the API name for the Sales or Service Cloud object included in the Synchronized
Data Sources synchronization process. Renaming prevents the process from occurring.
Don’t delete the Sales or Service Cloud object used as part of the synchronization process without first
pausing the object in Engagement. Otherwise, your account could continue to use out-of-date
information in your marketing activities.
Don’t delete any reference ID field from a synchronized Sales or Service Cloud object included in the
Synchronized Data Sources synchronization process. This step corrupts the relationships in your
synchronized contact model.
If you delete fields not required by Engagement as reference IDs in your Sales or Service Cloud objects,
Synchronized Data Sources synchronizes changes without errors. If your contact model requires the
deleted field as a reference ID, such as an email address or mobile number, you receive an error. The
237

=== PAGE 242 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Activity page logs all actions for review and troubleshooting purposes.
Plan Marketing Activities Around Data Refreshes and Large Updates
When a synchronized data source attempts to add, modify, or delete more that 600,000 rows in a
minute, Synchronized Data Sources automatically refreshes the data source. This refresh ensures that all
fields within that data source update accurately. This refresh process causes the associated synchronized
data extension to contain no information until the refresh process completes. The amount of time
necessary to complete the refresh process varies depending on the number of records to update. Ensure
that you allow enough time between a bulk update of a synchronized data source and any marketing
activities using the synchronized data extension. Otherwise, the marketing activity might not access any
data during the scheduled performance time.
Understand How Contact Deletion Functions with Synchronized Data
Sources
If you delete contacts in Engagement and a data source synchronizes before the deletion process
completes, the process adds a contact record in All Contacts. This record includes an 128-bit UUID. To
prevent this occurrence, delete contact records from Sales or Service Cloud before you delete them from
Engagement. You can also turn off the data synchronization process for that data source. These new
records include the Salesforce ID in the ID field of the synchronized data source. The _contactkey
field contains the UUID-style contact key used in All Contacts.
If you stop syncing a contact in Marketing Cloud Engagement, the contact is removed from the
synchronized data extensions but not from Contacts. To remove a contact, submit a contact delete
request.
Understand How Formula Fields Update with Synchronized Data Sources
Formula fields contained in Synchronized Data Sources update only when an update for another field on
the object occurs. Formula fields don’t trigger a change to an object or update last modified date fields.
When an update occurs, Marketing Cloud Engagement evaluates and updates all synchronized formula
fields for that object as necessary. These evaluations take place for every field update. For best
performance, use optimized SOQL statements in synchronized formula fields.
Filter Synchronized Records to Prevent Duplication of Records
Synchronized Data Sources creates separate contact records for each LeadID, ContactID, and UserID that
you synchronize from Sales or Service Cloud. You can filter records that don’t include email addresses to
prevent creating duplicate entries for the same contact. Use the Record Collection buttons when you
create or modify a synchronized data source to implement a filter. For example, you can eliminate
imported leads that don’t have an email address, since you can’t send email messages to those contacts.
You can also use Boolean values to filter records or sync records created after a specified date to include
only the records that are necessary for your use case.
238

=== PAGE 243 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Some users include Apex to populate a Boolean field in Sales Cloud to control which records are synced.
For example, Apex can populate a field called Marketable for all records where Email Address is NOT
empty. You can then use the Boolean filter in Engagement to import only those records where
Marketable equals True. Editing an object that has already been synchronized initiates a refresh for that
object.
To optimize performance, we recommend that you use boolean filters exclusively when filtering large
data sources. We also recommend that you avoid using date filters with large data sets.
See Also
Build a Formula Field
Unsubscribes
The first time a message is sent through Marketing Cloud Connect to a contact, lead, or person account
from Sales or Service Cloud, the recipient is added to the All Subscribers list in Marketing Cloud
Engagement. For example, when an Engagement email is sent from Sales Cloud to a report containing
contacts, those contacts are added to the All Subscribers list. The Engagement status for that subscriber
is set to Active in the All Subscribers list.
The status of a subscriber changes from Active to Unsubscribed in Engagement, and the Email Opt Out
field is enabled in Sales or Service Cloud when any of the following occurs:
•
A subscriber clicks the Unsubscribe link in an email or the profile center.
•
You click Marketing Cloud Unsubscribe on a contact, lead, or person account record in Sales or
Service Cloud.
Enabling the Email Opt Out field only in Sales or Service Cloud doesn’t synchronize the subscriber status
in Engagement. Always click Marketing Cloud Unsubscribe on the record.
Marketing Cloud Connect doesn’t support list unsubscribe. Use master unsubscribe to unsubscribe a
recipient.
An unsubscribed status prevents all sends to the recipient unless you configure the system to only allow
transactional sends, for example, a receipt of purchase. View the status of the subscriber from the All
Subscribers list in Engagement.
Note Transactional sending requires Marketing Cloud Connect version 5.18 or later.
Marketing Cloud Connect supports the Active or Unsubscribed status only for a subscriber.
Other Unsubscribes
•
A subscriber can be unsubscribed in Engagement by updating the subscriber properties. This
unsubscribe doesn’t synchronize the status in the Sales or Service Cloud. However, Engagement
prevents Engagement email sends to the subscriber.
239

=== PAGE 244 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
•
Marketing Cloud Connect doesn’t support business unit-level unsubscribes for Enterprise 2.0
accounts. Subscribers are included in the All Subscribers list at the enterprise level and unsubscribed
from all business units in the enterprise.
Reactivating a Subscriber
In Sales or Service Cloud, click Marketing Cloud Resubscribe on the contact, lead, or person account
record. This action disables the Email Opt Out field and changes the subscriber status to Active in the
Marketing Cloud All Subscriber list.
Note Disabling the Email Opt Out field doesn’t synchronize the status in Marketing Cloud. Always
click Marketing Cloud Resubscribe.
How Can I See Contacts Who Have Unsubscribed?
In Sales Cloud, build a report where the Email Opt Out field = True.
Or, in Engagement, query _Subscribers data view and return status.
See Also
Unsubscribes
Subscribers with Enhanced Subscriber Features in Marketing Cloud
Update Subscriber Status in Marketing Cloud
Frequently Asked Questions
Review frequently asked questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Account, Edition, and Other Compatibility FAQs
Answers to your questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement
compatibility with product editions, accounts, and more.
Advanced FAQs
Answers to your advanced questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud
Engagement.
Authentication FAQs
Answers to your questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement
authentication, including Connected Apps and OAuth 2.0.
Email Sends and Reports
Answers to your questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement email
sends and reports.
Encryption
Answers to your questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement
encryption.
240

=== PAGE 245 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Industry Compliance and Regulations
Answers to your questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement industry
compliance and regulations.
Installation and Setup FAQs
Answers to your questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement
installation and setup.
Multi-Org FAQs
Answers to your questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement multi-
org configuration.
Tracking and Unsubscribes
Answers to your questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement tracking
and unsubscribes.
Upgrade FAQs
Answers to your questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement upgrade.
Account, Edition, and Other Compatibility FAQs
Answers to your questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement
compatibility with product editions, accounts, and more.
What Marketing Cloud Engagement Editions Work with Marketing Cloud
Connect?
Marketing Cloud Connect works with all Engagement editions. Review product features for a complete
list of compatibility for Marketing Cloud Connect.
What Salesforce Editions Work with Marketing Cloud Connect?
Marketing Cloud Connect works with Salesforce Performance, Unlimited, Enterprise, and Developer
Edition Sandbox accounts. It doesn’t currently work with Professional Edition. Review product features
for a complete list of compatibility for Marketing Cloud Connect.
Does Marketing Cloud Connect Work in Lightning Experience?
The Marketing Cloud Connect User Interface within Sales/Service Cloud are created with Visualforce and
are considered Salesforce Classic experiences. Visualforce pages can be used within Lightning
Experience. However, you’re redirected to Salesforce Classic Experiences when you click Marketing Cloud
Connect tabs.
What Languages Are Supported?
Versions 5.494.1 (January 2016 Release) and earlier support English, French, and Japanese. Versions
241

=== PAGE 246 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
5.495.1 (March 2016 Release) and later support English, French, Japanese, Spanish, Spanish (Mexico),
Portuguese (Brazil) Italian, and German.
Is Marketing Cloud Connect Supported in the Salesforce Mobile App?
No.
Advanced FAQs
Answers to your advanced questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Can I Use Personalization with Marketing Cloud Connect?
Yes. Map attributes between Engagement and Salesforce CRM to use personalization.
Can I Map Custom Attributes Between Engagement and Sales or Service Cloud for Advanced
Personalization?
Yes. Custom attributes that are based on the Lead, Contact, Account, or Person Accounts objects can be
mapped. Mapping to custom objects isn’t currently available.
Can I Use Data Extensions with Marketing Cloud Connect?
Yes. Data extensions can be used when email sends are performed within Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Data Extensions can be populated using synchronized data extensions or Automation Studio imports.
Can I Use Custom Links and Server-Side JavaScript Buttons in Page Layouts with Marketing Cloud
Connect?
No. Replace custom links and Server-Side JavaScript buttons with Visualforce pages that provide secure
and appropriate links and buttons.
Can Engagement Help with App Changes?
Engagement doesn’t help with app development or modification but does recommend using one of our
development partners. Speak with your account representative for more information.
Why Do I Need to Install the Metadata API?
Salesforce uses the Metadata API remote site to automatically allowlist IP addresses and create time-
based workflows through the configuration wizard. If we’re unable to add the remote site automatically,
add it manually. If you perform IP allowlisting and workflow creation manually, you don’t need to install
the Metadata API remote site.
How Do I Install the Metadata API Remote Site Manually?
Search for Remote Site Settings in the Sales or Service Cloud setup. Select New Remote Site and edit it
with the following information:
242

=== PAGE 247 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
•
Remote Site Name: MetadataAPI
•
Remote Site URL: https://MyDomainName.my.salesforce.com
•
Description: Remote Site setting to make callouts.
Can Integrated Accounts Be Disconnected?
Yes. The ability to disconnect an Engagement account from the Sales or Service Cloud account is only
available for Enterprise 2.0, Core, and Lock & Publish accounts with version 5.493 or greater of the
package. The account must use connected app authentication. The Engagement admin can disconnect
the accounts by editing the Salesforce Integration in the Marketing Cloud Email Studio admin. There’s a
known issue with Google Chrome. If you cancel after clicking Disconnect Account and try disconnecting
again, the process will fail.
What Happens After Disconnecting an Integrated Account?
After disconnecting, the Salesforce system user’s credentials are removed, resetting the connection at
the account level. User mappings in the disconnected business unit and synchronized data extensions
are removed. All disconnected business units, orgs, and users can be remapped and synchronized data
extensions can be reconfigured in a new connection as needed.
Is Tracking Maintained After Disconnecting an Account?
Tracking subscriptions are canceled. Any tracking for previous sends isn’t pushed to the previous Sales or
Service Cloud org. If a new connection is made, tracking for previous sends isn’t pushed to the new org.
Tracking isn’t affected in Engagement.
How Do I Refresh an Integrated Sandbox Org?
Follow these steps to refresh an integrated sandbox org.
11.. Disconnect the integration.
The ability to disconnect an Engagement account from the Sales or Service Cloud account is only
available for Enterprise 2.0, Core, and Lock & Publish accounts with version 5.493+ of the package. The
account must use connected app authentication.
22.. Refresh the sandbox.
Sandbox refreshes complete in hours, days, or even more than a week, depending upon the number
of customizations, data size, number of objects, configuration choices, and server load. Also, sandbox
refreshes are queued, so there could be a delay after your request.
33.. Reconnect the accounts.
This process connects your Engagement account to the corresponding Sales or Service Cloud org.
44.. Complete Connected App authentication setup.
Complete these steps to finalize the connected app authentication setup, which manages all cross-
243

=== PAGE 248 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
cloud authentication from Engagement into the Sales and Service Clouds.
55.. Synchronize data sources.
If you use Synchronized Data Sources, all synched objects and data are deleted after disconnecting the
integration and must be recreated.
Can I Restrict My Connectivity to a Specific Stack or Set of IPs in Engagement with Marketing Cloud
Connect?
For connectivity from Sales or Service Cloud to Engagement through Marketing Cloud Connect, use the
Advanced Setting for Tenant-Specific Endpoints. This setting ensures stack-specific connectivity. When
using Connected App for connectivity from Engagement to Sales or Service Cloud, apply the IP allowlist
ranges to the Connected App user’s profile. The ranges are enforced at the time of initial connectivity.
Marketing Cloud Connect currently doesn’t maintain application-level or profile-level allowlist support.
Does Marketing Cloud Connect Support Single Sign-on?
Single sign-on is supported for customers that salesforce-sites.com, site.com, and vf.force.com domains
for their single sign-on. Custom domains aren’t supported for single sign-on through Marketing Cloud
Connect.
Authentication FAQs
Answers to your questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement
authentication, including Connected Apps and OAuth 2.0.
How Do We Authenticate Between the Clouds?
Marketing Cloud Connect uses Connected App and OAuth 2.0, trusted authentication tools. These tools
allow you to work seamlessly across Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, and Engagement without the need to
store credentials. Connected App authenticates users from Engagement into Sales and Service Clouds.
OAuth 2.0 authenticates users from Sales and Service Clouds into Engagement.
What Are Connected Apps?
Connected Apps are Salesforce managed packages used to connect applications to Salesforce using
APIs.
What Are the Benefits of Connected App Authentication?
Connected App authentication is a secure connection and authentication mechanism between Sales
Cloud, Service Cloud, and Engagement. Connected App doesn’t require you to store Sales or Service
Cloud passwords in Engagement. It also prevents SOAP and REST API calls made by Marketing Cloud
Connect from counting against your rolling 24-hour limit.
Does Connected App Authentication Remove All API Limits?
244

=== PAGE 249 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
No. Connected App Authentication only excludes SOAP, REST, and BULK API calls made by Marketing
Cloud Connect. Concurrent API request limits are still enforced. Most calls made by Marketing Cloud
Connect are SOAP and REST. BULK API calls are only used by Synchronized Data Extension Refresh when
the feature is enabled.
Is Connected App Authentication Required?
Yes. As of June 1, 2016, all Marketing Cloud Connect customers are required to use Connected App
Authentication.
Can I Send to CRM Audiences While Upgrading to Connected App Authentication?
No. The connection between Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, and Marketing Cloud Engagement is broken
during the upgrade process, so ensure that all Marketing Cloud Connect activities are paused. All sends
to reports, campaigns, contacts, leads, and Salesforce data extensions fail. Marketing Cloud Engagement
sends that don’t involve Marketing Cloud Connect aren’t affected. We suggest scheduling a 1–2 hour
outage depending on your number of connected users.
Can I Send to Traditional Engagement Audiences While Upgrading My Account Authentication?
Yes. Normal Engagement sends continue to work.
Can Connected App Authentication Be Rolled Back After It’s Enabled?
No. After you authenticate using Connected App Authentication, you can’t revert to legacy
authentication.
What Is OAuth 2.0?
OAuth 2.0 Authentication uses access tokens to provide a secure connection between the clouds,
without storing any Engagement user passwords in Sales and Service Clouds.
When Is OAuth Implemented? Will the User Experience Change?
This enhanced authentication is available starting with the 208.1 managed package release. After
upgrading, existing Marketing Cloud Connect users are prompted to reenter their Marketing Cloud
Engagement credentials the next time they access Marketing Cloud Connect. The rest of the user
experience remains the same.
Is OAuth 2.0 Authentication Required?
Yes. All accounts that are upgraded to the 208.1 managed package or newer use OAuth 2.0.
How Do I Download and Complete This Update?
To reduce downtime or impact to your business, follow these steps if you’re upgrading from an older
version of the managed package:
11.. To understand feature changes in the 208.1 managed package, review the latest releases page.
245

=== PAGE 250 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
22.. To minimize downtime if an unexpected error occurs, schedule the upgrade during off-peak hours.
33.. Allow all scheduled sends to complete before starting the upgrade, if possible.
44.. Ensure that you can log in to Engagement using the current API user credentials.
55.. Follow the steps on the Install Managed Package page.
After upgrading, existing Marketing Cloud Connect users are prompted to reenter their Engagement
credentials the next time they access Marketing Cloud Connect.
66.. Verify that Marketing Cloud Connect API user credentials migrated after upgrading by navigating to
the Marketing Cloud tab in Sales or Service Cloud.
How Can I Verify That Marketing Cloud Connect API User Credentials Migrated After Upgrading to OAuth
2.0?
If the user didn’t migrate, non-Enterprise 2.0 accounts are prompted to enter Marketing Cloud Connect
API user credentials. Enterprise 2.0 accounts follow these steps to confirm:
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, navigate to the Marketing Cloud tab.
22.. Click Configure Marketing Cloud Connector.
33.. Click Manage Business Units.
44.. Confirm that previously active Business Units are still active.
55.. If Marketing Cloud Connect API user credentials didn’t migrate, click Change API User from the
configuration page.
66.. Enter the Marketing Cloud Connect API user credentials and save.
77.. Click Manage Business Units.
88.. Confirm that previously active Business Units are now active.
See Also
Authentication Between Clouds
Upgrade to Connected App
Connected Apps
API Request Limits and Allocations
Authorize Apps with OAuth
Email Sends and Reports
Answers to your questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement email
sends and reports.
How Do I Send Engagement Emails from the Sales or Service Clouds?
After Marketing Cloud Connect is configured, send emails to campaigns and reports through the
Marketing Cloud tab. Send emails from a Campaign, Contact, or Lead by clicking Send Marketing Cloud
Email after adding the custom Visualforce page to the page layouts.
246

=== PAGE 251 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Can I Send to Sales or Service Cloud Campaigns or Reports?
Yes. You can send to one or more campaigns or reports from the Marketing Cloud tab. Reports must
contain either a Lead ID or Contact ID field, and you must have permission to view the report.
Can I Send to Multiple Reports and Campaigns at the Same Time?
Yes. You can send to up to 10 campaigns, reports, or a combination of both from the Marketing Cloud
tab.
Can I Send to Reports in My Personal Custom Reports Folder?
Yes, but only if the Scope by User option was selected when integrating or the Tracking User and the
View My Personal Custom Reports options were enabled during configuration of Marketing Cloud
Connect.
Can I Send to Sales or Service Cloud Person Accounts?
Yes. You can send to Person Accounts.
Can I Send to a Single Sales or Service Cloud Contact or Lead?
Yes. Click Send Marketing Cloud Email on the Lead or Contact record after adding the custom Visualforce
page to the appropriate page layout.
What Objects Can I Send to in Salesforce?
You can send to Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, and Person Account objects.
Can I Create Emails in Sales or Service Cloud to Send Through Marketing
Cloud Connect?
No. Email content must be created in Marketing Cloud for use within Marketing Cloud Connect sends.
Can I Preview Emails in Sales or Service Cloud Before Sending?
Yes. You can preview a thumbnail version after selecting an email. If you select an email and report or
campaign, a dynamic preview with subscriber-specific content is also available.
Can I Verify My Counts in Sales or Service Cloud Before Sending?
Yes. If you can access the report you’re sending to, you can verify counts in advance.
247

=== PAGE 252 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Can I Associate an Email with a Report or Campaign?
Yes. Associate email content with a list of recipients (reports or campaigns) through email linkages.
Check the box for “Remember recipients and exclusions for this email” after selecting an email and a
recipient list from the Send Email page. The audience box is automatically populated the next time you
select the email content.
Are Joined Reports Supported by Marketing Cloud Connect?
No. Learn more about joined reports.
What Are Exclusions?
Exclusions allow you to exclude specific customers from a send. Both reports and campaigns can be
excluded at time of send.
What Are My Options for a Send-From Address?
You can send from your own email address, the owner of a record, an organization-wide email address,
or an Engagement send classification.
What Time-Based Options Are Available for Sending?
You can send immediately or schedule a future time and date.
Can I View a Thumbnail Preview of My Triggered Sends?
View a thumbnail preview of triggered sends on the Individual Email Results record. Previews include
triggered sends created with Content Builder after the 209 managed package release. Thumbnails don’t
include rendering of any personalization or AMPscript.
Encryption
Answers to your questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement encryption.
What Versions of TLS Encryption Protocols Are Supported by Marketing
Cloud Connect?
TLS version 1.2 or higher is required.
Previously, Marketing Cloud Connect has recommended deactivating the "Require TLS 1.2 or Higher"
critical update. As of February 2017, deactivation of this critical update is no longer required as the
248

=== PAGE 253 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
integration is TLS 1.2+ compliant. No impact or actions by the client are necessary to ensure that the
integration continues to function.
Industry Compliance and Regulations
Answers to your questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement industry
compliance and regulations.
What is the CAN-SPAM Act?
The CAN-SPAM Act is a law setting the rules for commercial email. It establishes requirements for
commercial messages, giving recipients the right to stop you from emailing them, and defines tough
penalties for violations. See United States Federal Trade Commission Business Guidance: CAN-SPAM Act:
A Compliance Guide for Business.
Are There Any Restrictions Regarding the Use of Marketing Cloud Connect?
Yes. Before each email send, verify that recipients have expressly provided direct consent or otherwise
gave you or your company express permission in a verifiable manner to send email messages to them in
accordance with the CAN-SPAM Act.
Installation and Setup FAQs
Answers to your questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement installation
and setup.
How Do I Install Marketing Cloud Connect?
Review the Connect the Clouds section to learn about installing Marketing Cloud Connect.
Who Installs Marketing Cloud Connect?
Installation requires administrative rights to both Engagement and Sales or Service Cloud.
How Do I Get Marketing Cloud Connect Tabs to Appear in Sales or Service
Cloud?
After the Marketing Cloud Connect managed package is installed, customize your tabs in the main
navigation with the Marketing Cloud, Email Sends, and Send Analytics tabs. Add these tabs to the list of
Selected Tabs. Learn how to customize your tabs in Salesforce. Adding Marketing Cloud Connect tabs to
your main navigation isn’t required to use Marketing Cloud Connect.
249

=== PAGE 254 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Multi-Org FAQs
Answers to your questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement multi-org
configuration.
Is Multi-Org Enabled by Default?
No. Multi-Org must be requested from Support. We examine your account to ensure that Multi-Org is
right for you.
Who Can Upgrade to a Multi-Org Account?
Multi-Org is an Enterprise 2.0 account configuration. It requires version 5.494 or later of Marketing Cloud
Connect and Connected App Authentication.
What Are the Benefits of Multi-Org?
Multi-Org connects multiple Salesforce orgs to a single Enterprise 2.0 account, with all the Enterprise 2.0
account benefits. Your Sales or Service Cloud connections are managed at the Business Unit level. Multi-
Org is a great solution to centralize your marketing content in Engagement, but maintain separate CRM
data throughout your organization.
Why Upgrade to Multi-Org?
Customers with multiple Sales or Service Cloud instances that hold different data or serve different
business functions can typically benefit from upgrading.
Can I Enable Multi-Org for an Existing Account?
Yes. Upgrading an existing Enterprise 2.0 account is possible, but any previously connected business unit
must be manually reconnected. The top-level (parent) account remains connected.
Example: I have a standard Enterprise 2.0 Engagement account with five Business Units connected to a
single Sales Cloud org. The top-level (parent) account is connected to the same org. In a non-Multi-Org
account, all five Business Units could inherit the parent-level connection. Enabling Multi-Org removes the
Business Unit connections inheritance, breaking any existing Business Unit connection. The top-level
(parent) account remains connected. Each Business Unit must be individually reconnected to the
appropriate Sales Cloud org after upgrading. Also, reconnect user mappings at the Business Unit level.
Does Multi-Org Require a New or Separate Installation of Marketing Cloud
Connect?
No. Multi-Org is available for any existing Marketing Cloud Connect customers using version 5.494 or
250

=== PAGE 255 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
higher. When Multi-Org is enabled, your accounts are disconnected. Disconnecting your account
removes existing user mappings, attribute mappings, and tracking subscriptions.
Can I Disable Multi-Org?
No. After your account is upgraded to Multi-Org, you can’t turn it off.
How Do I Get Multi-Org Improvements?
All Multi-Org improvements and enhancements are automatically pushed to your account with every
Marketing Cloud release.
What Are Multi-Org Best Practices?
We recommend controlling All Subscriber List access, using a custom profile center, and carefully
planning your account and user setup. Review Multi-Org Account Configuration.
Do Child Business Units Inherit Parent Mappings?
No. Parent-mapping inheritance isn’t currently supported. All connections must be managed at the
Business Unit level. While upgrading, suspend all sending through Marketing Cloud Connect as any in-
flight sends fail.
Are There Restrictions When Connecting Users?
Yes. Establish a one-to-one connection between Sales and Engagement customers. However, more
complex connection schemes are supported depending on your business unit connections.
Can I Disconnect My Accounts?
Yes. You can disconnect any Business Unit from your Sales or Service Cloud using the Salesforce
Integration screen in Engagement. Disconnecting your account removes existing user mappings,
attribute mappings, and tracking subscriptions. After it’s disconnected, that Business Unit can connect to
any eligible org.
Warning If you use Synchronized Data Sources with multi-org configuration, when you disconnect a
business unit from Sales or Service Cloud, synchronized data extension names can change. To
ensure that they continue working, update query activities that reference those synchronized data
extensions.
251

=== PAGE 256 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Are There Best Practices for Reconnecting?
Yes. If you’re disconnecting and reconnecting to a different Salesforce org, click Disconnect in Marketing
Cloud Connect settings before reconnecting. Pause any Synchronized Data Sources during the process.
Is Sharing Salesforce Data Extensions (SFDEs) Across Business Units (BUs)
Allowed?
No. Sharing SFDEs in a Multi-Org account isn’t supported, even between BUs connected to the same org.
Sharing standard Data Extensions and content is supported. Review and move data extensions under the
Shared Salesforce Data Extensions folder. Access is removed when multi-org is enabled
Is Personalization Supported in Multi-Org?
Yes, for standard fields only. Using custom fields from the Sales Cloud requires AMPscript.
Is the Standard Profile Center Supported in Multi-Org?
No. Custom Profile Centers are required for Multi-Org.
Is Web Collect Supported?
No.
Is One Custom Profile Center (CPC) Per Business Unit Required?
No. One CPC per Business Unit is an option, but isn’t required. Other options include one CPC that
manages business unit unsubscribes, or multiple CPCs that align with key departments, publications, or
verticals in your business. It’s important that you manage unsubscribes to remain CAN-SPAM compliant.
Can I Use Multi-Org with My Sandbox and Production Accounts?
Yes, but consider the following:
•
Sandbox promotions aren’t possible in Engagement. Org sandboxes can be promoted into production
orgs. You can't promote changes in a 'test' business unit into another 'prod' business unit.
•
Sandboxes are often used for testing items that are high risk for adversely affecting accounts, such as
load tests, performance tests, or volume tests. Connecting your production account to your sandbox
org elevates the risk of harming your production account.
•
Engagement business units aren’t data-isolated. Test data and production data are co-mingled when
using a sandbox, which impacts data cleanliness and adds complexity to reporting, audience creation,
and so on.
•
All business units receive code at the same time. You can test Sales or Service Cloud changes before
252

=== PAGE 257 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
the release. However, Engagement changes go live at the same time, regardless of whether the
business unit is tied to a Sandbox.
Do Deep Links Work with Multi-Org Accounts?
Yes, but consider the following. When using deep links with multi-org accounts, you’re logged in to your
default Engagement business unit. This login is regardless of whether that business unit is configured for
use with the Sales or Service Cloud by Marketing Cloud Connect. To access a business unit other than
your default, log directly in to the desired Engagement business. To avoid changing in the incorrect
business unit, avoid using deep links.
See Also
Multi-Org Account Configuration in Marketing Cloud Connect
Tracking and Unsubscribes
Answers to your questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement tracking
and unsubscribes.
What Options Are Available for Tracking?
Under tracking preferences in Marketing Cloud Connect settings, you can specify the level of tracking:
aggregate, individual, link detail and sent events. A time-based utility for deleting tracking data is also
available through the Configure Integration section of the Marketing Cloud tab in the CRM.
Can Users Turn Off Tracking?
Yes. Tracking options can be deselected from the tracking preferences section in Marketing Cloud
Connect settings. If reducing data storage is a higher priority than tracking individual results, you can also
override individual level tracking during a send.
How Can a Subscriber Unsubscribe?
There are multiple ways to unsubscribe a subscriber from receiving communications.
•
A subscriber opts out by clicking the link to the profile center included in each email. The user is
unsubscribed in the Marketing Cloud and the Email Opt Out flag is checked in the CRM.
•
A subscriber can click a link to a custom profile center and opt in or out of specific communications.
•
A Salesforce user can unsubscribe or opt out a subscriber manually within the CRM.
•
An Engagement user can unsubscribe or opt out a subscriber manually in Engagement.
•
A Salesforce user can unsubscribe or opt out a subscriber manually within the CRM by clicking the
Unsubscribe/Resubscribe link in the ContactActions Visualforce Page if it has been added to the Lead/
Contact page layout.
253

=== PAGE 258 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
A Marketing Cloud user can unsubscribe or opt out a subscriber manually in Marketing Cloud, but the
opt-out flag in CRM isn’t set. This action can cause the subscriber to become out of sync.
See Also
Reports
Schedule Reports in Salesforce Classic
Upgrade FAQs
Answers to your questions about Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement upgrade.
How Long Does It Take to Upgrade from v2 to Marketing Cloud Connect?
Upgrading v2 to Marketing Cloud Connect is mostly self-service. Expect a 2–3 hour send outage for all
sends to Salesforce recipients including reports, campaigns, contacts, leads, and Salesforce data
extensions.
How Long Does It Take to Upgrade from v3 to Marketing Cloud Connect?
Marketing Cloud Connect is typically installed in 1-2 hours without migrating historical tracking data. If
historical tracking data is migrated, the process can take an entire day. An internal Salesforce service
team performs the upgrade.
Troubleshooting Guide
Review troubleshooting tips for Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Initiate Logging
Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement includes an option for logging all package-
related API calls and associated details, which is useful for monitoring and troubleshooting. Enable the
log through the Marketing Cloud Connect Configuration page.
Troubleshoot Email Sends and Tracking in Marketing Cloud Connect
Tips for troubleshooting sending emails and tracking with Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing
Cloud Engagement.
Troubleshoot Installation and Configuration
Tips for troubleshooting installation and configuration with Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing
Cloud Engagement.
Troubleshoot API Calls and Data Load Jobs
Tips for troubleshooting bulk API calls and data load jobs, and using API request logs with Marketing
Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Troubleshoot User Access and Permissions
Tips for troubleshooting user access and permissions with Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing
Cloud Engagement.
254

=== PAGE 259 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Advanced Troubleshooting
Tips for advanced troubleshooting with Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Initiate Logging
Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement includes an option for logging all package-
related API calls and associated details, which is useful for monitoring and troubleshooting. Enable the
log through the Marketing Cloud Connect Configuration page.
Important Marketing Cloud Connect retired this logging capability with the 234.0 Package release.
We recommend these alternatives to troubleshoot your integrations:
Note Logging is disabled 60 minutes after it’s enabled.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, navigate to Setup object.
22.. Click Apex Jobs.
33.. In the Apex Class column, review entries for triggered sends or JBIntBulkManager, which is the
Journey Builder Entry Event.
aa.. If you can’t find these entries, it’s likely that the records aren’t meeting the injection or trigger
criteria. There can also be an issue in the evaluation process, such as custom triggers or flow errors.
bb.. If these entries show that injection or sending still isn’t happening, it’s likely that there’s a
configuration issue or that the contact is being rejected by the journey or that they’ve unsubscribed.
Troubleshoot Email Sends and Tracking in Marketing Cloud Connect
Tips for troubleshooting sending emails and tracking with Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud
Engagement.
Troubleshoot Tracking
Review these options to investigate and troubleshoot tracking for email sends.
•
Confirm Sales or Service Cloud configuration tracking options.
You can customize tracking preferences in the Sales or Service Cloud within the Marketing Cloud
Connect configuration page. We recommend setting the tracking frequency to hourly and the number
of days to track at 90. You can override individual tracking configurations on each email send. Learn
more about Tracking options.
•
Check Engagement tracking configuration.
To ensure that the Salesforce system user and Marketing Cloud API user are set up and connected,
follow the Connect the Clouds configuration steps.
•
Test emails to see if sends are using contacts or leads.
Ensure that email recipients are pulled from a Salesforce campaign, report, contact, lead, or person
account. Marketing Cloud Connect doesn’t support sends to objects other than Lead, Contact, or
Person Account. If the email send is using a Salesforce data extension, ensure that the subscriber key
255

=== PAGE 260 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
is an 18-digit Contact or Lead ID.
•
Confirm that you’re using Marketing Cloud Connect
Some tracking features aren’t available in earlier versions of Marketing Cloud Connect. To upgrade to
Marketing Cloud Connect, speak with your account representative.
Email Send Is Stuck in a Send Queued Status or Failed with an Error
Message
The send process was able to create a data extension, populate it with data, and create the user-initiated
send definition. However, it failed to execute the send using that definition. You see an error message:
Errors could not be resolved within 12 hours. There are a few possible causes:
•
The email didn’t pass validation, which prevents sending. Correct the validation issue and retry the
send.
•
Ensure that the user initiating the send has API User selected on the user record in Engagement.
•
If the account is configured as scope-by-user, verify that the user initiating the send has permission to
send within Engagement. This permission includes the ability to access and execute user-initiated
emails.
•
Locate the send in the account. If the data extension for the send isn’t deleted due to retention
policies, starting this email send definition in Engagement provides error details. Attempt this process
only if it’s OK for the send to execute, because this test could result in the issue resolution and send
execution.
Send Shows Failed Status with Creating Send Definition Error
If sending to a report, the Report is missing a field for Contact or Lead Id. To resolve this issue, update
the report with the ID field for Lead or Contact.
Send Status Stuck at Processing Data with a Retried Data Retrieval Message
If your account is configured as scope-by-user, ensure that the user initiating the send has an updated
password on the user record within Engagement. For example, if a connected user’s Sales Cloud
password is updated, the Engagement password must also be updated.
In Sales or Service Cloud, navigate to Setup to customize the Lead and Contact fields by selecting Email
Opt Out, Set Field-Level Security, and Visible to enable for all roles.
Email Doesn’t Send
Check these items. To further troubleshoot, log in as the Salesforce system user and try to view the
report you’re sending to check data accessibility.
•
If sending to a report, ensure that the report includes the LeadID or ContactID field. The status
remains Failed without these fields.
256

=== PAGE 261 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
•
If sending to a report, check what it’s displaying under Show for the report. Filter records by criteria
other than MY RECORDS. For example, My Leads data is not visible to the Salesforce system user.
•
Make sure that Email Opt Out isn’t selected for the subscriber in Sales or Service Cloud.
•
Make sure that the subscriber isn’t unsubscribed in Engagement.
•
Make sure that API User is selected on the Engagement user record. If it isn’t, the send status stays at
Send Queued.
Error Sending Email Due to Name Length
Use 80 characters or less for the email name when sending through Marketing Cloud Connect.
Email Send Status Is Failed with Message
Sending emails from an email address that contains invalid characters, such as a plus sign + causes the
email send status to fail with a message Error Creating Sender Profile. Use a different From
Address to send the email.
Unable to Access Send Screen
You receive this error message No Send Classifications were found in the Marketing
Cloud. Contact your system administrator. Check the following:
•
In Sales or Service Cloud, navigate to the Marketing Cloud Connect configuration page. Verify that the
Send Types value is Email.
•
In Marketing Cloud Email Studio, confirm that the user is integrated by viewing the user record. Ensure
that the Salesforce.com Status is set to Integrated and enter the Salesforce.com username.
Unable to Select an Email When Performing a Send
•
Verify that the Marketing Cloud API user has the correct permissions to be able to see emails
•
Certain versions of Internet Explorer, specifically IE11, causes this issue. Use a supported browser.
•
If you’re using Approvals, only approved emails are accessible in Sales Cloud.
Campaign Sending Not Enabled
You receive the message: Campaign sending not enabled. This Marketing Cloud
integration is not configured to send to a campaign. Contact your system
administrator. Check if the Send Marketing Cloud Email link is enabled for campaigns but it isn’t
selected as a valid recipient type in the configuration. Use these options to resolve it.
•
Remove the link from campaigns. In Sales or Service Cloud, update campaign page layout by
removing Send Marketing Cloud Email from the Custom Links section.
•
Allow sending to campaigns. Log in to Sales or Service Cloud as a Marketing Cloud Connect admin. Go
to the Marketing Cloud configuration page and select Campaign for the Target Audience under the
257

=== PAGE 262 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Sends section.
Unable to Select an Email When Performing a Send
•
Verify that the Marketing Cloud API user has the correct permissions to access emails.
•
Using certain versions of Internet Explorer, specifically IE11, causes this issue. Use a supported
browser.
Integration Package Not Installed
You receive this message: Be advised, the integration package has not been installed
in your Salesforce Org. Tracking data for this send is not pushed back to
Salesforce. Check whether users aren’t correctly mapped across clouds. Review Manage Users to set
up users correctly.
No Thumbnail Preview Display for Triggered Send
Thumbnail previews display only for triggered sends created with Content Builder after the 209 managed
package release. Thumbnails don’t include a rendering of any personalization or AMPscript.
Concurrent Session Limit Policy and Individual Email Responses
If the Concurrent Session Limit setting is enabled within Transaction Security Policies in Sales or Service
Cloud, it can affect activities that are active through Marketing Cloud Connect. Don’t enable this setting
when using Marketing Cloud Connect.
Troubleshoot Installation and Configuration
Tips for troubleshooting installation and configuration with Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing
Cloud Engagement.
Salesforce Not Accepting Calls
You receive the message: We are sorry, but Salesforce is not accepting calls to
confirm and retrieve your Salesforce Org ID. Try again. If IP allowlist information is
missing, you get this error when setting the Salesforce system user in Engagement. Allowlist a range of IP
addresses to identify them as safe and grant network access to trusted networks. The allowlist lets
Marketing Cloud Connect to communicate across networks. Learn more about adding IP addresses to
the allowlist.
258

=== PAGE 263 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
No ApexClass Found When Installing Package
You receive the message: ExactTarget Integration: In field: apexClass - no ApexClass
named SubscriberAnalyticsController found" when installing package. A configuration
issue on the Sales or Service Cloud account causes this issue. Contact Salesforce Global Support to
enable the permission Remoting for Apex Controllers for the integration to install correctly. Then
reattempt the package installation.
Connection Error
You receive the message: Connection Error - Salesforce is unable to connect to the
Marketing Cloud. Contact your system administrator to ensure that the API user
credentials are correct. Check whether the Marketing Cloud API user for the account integration
has an expired password or if the user is disabled. If the issue continues, check security events for recent
login failures and API logs for more details.
•
If Marketing Cloud Connect uses scope-by-user configuration, the Marketing Cloud API user can log in
to Marketing Cloud and update the password.
•
If Marketing Cloud Connect uses non-scope-by-user configuration, the Marketing Cloud API user logs
in to Sales or Service Cloud to update the Marketing Cloud API user password. Confirm that the
password is updated in Engagement.
Setup Wizard Error
You receive the message: Web service callout failed: WebService returned a SOAP Fault:
INVALID_SESSION_ID: Invalid Session ID found in SessionHeader: Illegal Session
faultcode=sf:INVALID_SESSION_ID faultactor= when attempting to run the setup wizard using
Lightning Experience. Switch to Salesforce Classic UI before launching the Marketing Cloud Connect
setup wizard.
Troubleshoot API Calls and Data Load Jobs
Tips for troubleshooting bulk API calls and data load jobs, and using API request logs with Marketing
Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Troubleshoot Bulk Data Load Jobs with Marketing Cloud Connect
The Bulk API pushes tracking data back to Sales or Service Cloud from Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Troubleshoot Bulk Data Load Jobs with Marketing Cloud Connect
The Bulk API pushes tracking data back to Sales or Service Cloud from Marketing Cloud Engagement.
To track Marketing Cloud Connect issues related to missing individual link level detail records, view the
bulk data load job details. For example, a Bulk API record isn’t written when a URL is longer than the field
259

=== PAGE 264 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
defined on an object. To track the status of completed or in-progress bulk data load jobs, go to Setup
and enter Bulk Data Load Jobs in the Quick Find box. Then select Bulk Data Load Jobs and click a
Job ID link for a job.
See Also
Monitor Bulk Data Load Jobs
Troubleshoot User Access and Permissions
Tips for troubleshooting user access and permissions with Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud
Engagement.
Insufficient User Permissions
You receive the message: Insufficient User Permissions - Your Marketing Cloud user
account does not have the required access to perform ET Sends. Contact your
system administrator. - Salesforce is unable to connect to the Marketing Cloud.
Contact your system administrator to ensure that the API user credentials are
correct. This error is with the individual integrated user, not the Salesforce system user, or Marketing
Cloud API user.
•
To set up users correctly, review Manage Users.
•
Confirm that the Engagement user record isn’t disabled.
•
Confirm that the user permission for Email Send isn’t disabled.
Insufficient User Permissions During Configuration
During setup, admin selecting Marketing Cloud tab results in error Insufficient User
Permissions. You have not been designated as an integrated Marketing Cloud user.
Contact your system administrator. The admin only has the Marketing Cloud for AppExchange
Admin option selected, but also needs Marketing Cloud for AppExchange User. In Sales or Service
Cloud, modify the user record to include Marketing Cloud for AppExchange User.
Advanced Troubleshooting
Tips for advanced troubleshooting with Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Marketing Cloud Connect Doesn’t Work After September 2016 Release
As of the September 2016 Marketing Cloud release, configure Connected App Authentication to ensure
that Connect continues working in your account. If your Connected App OAuth Policies aren’t correctly
configured, authentication from Engagement into Salesforce CRM is broken. Core Engagement
functionality including triggered sends, automations, and Journey Builder sends are offline until OAuth
260

=== PAGE 265 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Policies are configured correctly.
•
How do I complete the Connected App Authentication?
Don’t disconnect and reconnect your account. Have your Salesforce CRM Admin complete all steps for
setting up Connected App Authentication. When completed, Marketing Cloud Connect resumes full
functionality.
•
Is there a specific error in Sales or Service Cloud?
No. However, all Marketing Cloud Connect functionality that requires authentication from
Engagement into Sales or Service Cloud fails.
•
Is there a specific error in Engagement?
No, but you can perform a quick account verification test by performing a guided send to a Salesforce
Report. If the account is configured correctly, the send completes. If configuration isn’t complete, you
receive this error: An embedded page at members.exacttarget.com says: An exception
occurred while retrieving Salesforce credentials or attempting to log in to
Salesforce. Confirm your Salesforce credentials and if the problem persists,
contact your System administrator.
Do Deep Links Work with Enterprise 2.0 Multi-Org Accounts?
Yes, but consider the following.
•
When using deep links with Enterprise 2.0 multi-org accounts, you’re logged in to your default
Engagement business unit. This login happens, regardless of whether that business unit has been
configured for use with the Sales or Service Cloud by Marketing Cloud Connect.
•
To access a business unit other than your default, log directly in to the desired Engagement business
unit instead of using deep links to avoid changing the incorrect business unit.
Tutorials
Practice Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement features with these tutorials for
specific use cases.
Personalize Triggered Sends with Object Data
Use standard and custom object data to personalize triggered sends through Marketing Cloud
Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
Link-Based Campaign from Custom Report
This Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement tutorial shows how to create a
custom report in Sales or Service Cloud. Use the report to identify contacts who clicked a link in an
Engagement email send.
Drip Campaign
This Marketing Cloud Connect tutorial shows how to use email send definitions and programs in
Marketing Cloud Engagement to automate and schedule sends to Sales or Service Cloud reports and
campaigns.
261

=== PAGE 266 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Personalize Triggered Sends with Object Data
Use standard and custom object data to personalize triggered sends through Marketing Cloud Connect
for Marketing Cloud Engagement.
You need permission to create data extensions in Engagement and to understand how to use triggered
sends. This functionality requires Marketing Cloud Connect version 5.496 or later.
Note Custom objects require a lookup relationship to a Contact record.
11.. Create a Triggered Send Data Extension
For this Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement tutorial example, create a dynamic
triggered send for new and closed cases using the same email content and triggered send definition.
22.. Create a Personalized Email with Standard Object Data
For this Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement tutorial example, create a
personalized email from a case with standard object data using AMPscript.
33.. Create a Personalized Email with Custom Object Data
For this Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement tutorial example, create a
personalized email from a case with custom object data using AMPscript.
44.. Create a Personalized Triggered Send
For this Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement tutorial example, create a
triggered send with personalization from a case and a custom object.
Create a Triggered Send Data Extension
For this Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement tutorial example, create a dynamic
triggered send for new and closed cases using the same email content and triggered send definition.
One triggered send definition and one email can generate two different emails based on the case status.
11.. In Marketing Cloud, navigate to Email Studio.
22.. Under Subscribers, click Data Extensions.
33.. Click Create.
44.. Select Standard Data Extension (Default).
55.. Click OK.
66.. Select Create from Template.
77.. Select TriggeredSendDataExtension.
88.. Click OK.
99.. Rename the new data extension. For example, Case Closed Send Email.
1100.. Click Next.
1111.. Select Data Retention Policies or accept the default as Off.
1122.. Click Next.
1133.. Add two new text fields named SObject and RecordId with Nullable selected for each.
1144.. Set Data Type as Text.
1155.. Set Length as 50.
262

=== PAGE 267 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
1166.. Set Nullable as Selected.
1177.. Under Send Relationship, select Subscriberkey relates to Subscribers on Subscriber Key.
1188.. Click Create.
Create a Personalized Email with Standard Object Data
For this Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement tutorial example, create a
personalized email from a case with standard object data using AMPscript.
11.. In Engagement, go to Email Studio.
22.. Click Content.
33.. Click Create.
44.. Click HTML Paste.
55.. Enter a name and a subject.
66.. In the email content area, insert this AMPscript.
%%[
Set @mySObject = SObject
Set @myRecordId = RecordId
set @Case = RetrieveSalesforceObjects(SObject,"Subject,Status","Id", "=", Re
cordId)
Set @CaseRow = Row(@Case, 1)
Set @Subject = FIELD(@CaseRow, "Subject")
Set @Status = FIELD(@CaseRow, "Status")
]%%
<br>
<br>
SObject From API Call: %%=v(@mySObject)=%%
<br>
RecordId From API Call: %%=v(@myRecordId)=%%
<br>
Subject From RetrieveSalesforceObjects: %%=v(@Subject)=%%
<br>
Status From RetrieveSalesforceObjects: %%=v(@Status)=%%
<br>
77.. Save the email.
88.. Modify the AMPscript example to include extra customizations. To add more fields from the case,
follow this format. For example, include the Description field.
set @Case = RetrieveSalesforceObjects(SObject,"Subject,Status,Descriptio
n","Id", "=", RecordId)
99.. To set the Description variable, add another line of code. For example, under line 6 add this code.
Set @Description = FIELD(@CaseRow, "Description").
263

=== PAGE 268 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Add this code within the closing tag ]%%.
1100.. To print the Description field in an email, add another line of code under the last line.
Status From RetrieveSalesforceObjects: %%=v(@Description)=%% <br>
New AMPscript looks like this example.
%%[
Set @mySObject = SObject
Set @myRecordId = RecordId
set @Case = RetrieveSalesforceObjects(SObject,"Subject,Status","Id", "=", Reco
rdId)
Set @CaseRow = Row(@Case, 1)
Set @Subject = FIELD(@CaseRow, "Subject")
Set @Status = FIELD(@CaseRow, "Status")
Set @Description = FIELD(@CaseRow, "Description")
]%%
<br>
<br>
SObject From API Call: %%=v(@mySObject)=%%
<br>
RecordId From API Call: %%=v(@myRecordId)=%%
<br>
Subject From RetrieveSalesforceObjects: %%=v(@Subject)=%%
<br>
Status From RetrieveSalesforceObjects: %%=v(@Status)=%%
<br>
Description From RetrieveSalesforceObjects: %%=v(@Description)=%%
<br>
Tip Validate a newly created email containing AMPscript against the newly created data extension.
Triggered sends don’t activate if the email content doesn’t pass validation.
See Also
Introduction to Programmatic Marketing Content
Create a Personalized Email with Custom Object Data
For this Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement tutorial example, create a
personalized email from a case with custom object data using AMPscript.
Assume that you have a custom object called Application with a lookup to the Contact object. The
Application custom object has two fields: University_Name__c and Course_Name__c.
11.. In Engagement, go to Email Studio.
264

=== PAGE 269 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
22.. Click Content.
33.. Click Create.
44.. Select HTML Paste.
55.. Enter an email name and subject line.
66.. In the email content area, insert this AMPscript.
%%[
Set @mySObject = SObjectSet
@myRecordId = RecordIdset
@Application = RetrieveSalesforceObjects(@mySObject,"University_Nam
e__c,Course_Name__c","Id", "=", @myRecordId)
Set @ApplicationRow = Row(@Application, 1)
Set @University_Name = FIELD(@ApplicationRow, "University_Name__c")
Set @Course_Name = FIELD(@ApplicationRow, "Course_Name__c")
]%%<br>
<br>SObject From API Call: %%=v(@mySObject)=%%
<br>RecordId From API Call: %%=v(@myRecordId)=%%
<br>University Name From RetrieveSalesforceObjects: %%=v(@University_Nam
e)=%%
<br>Course Name From RetrieveSalesforceObjects: %%=v(@Course_Name)=%% <br>
When referencing custom object fields, include the Sales Cloud field name and the underscore _. For
example, University_Name__c.
77.. Save the email.
265

=== PAGE 270 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Create a Personalized Triggered Send
For this Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement tutorial example, create a triggered
send with personalization from a case and a custom object.
11.. From Sales or Service Cloud, go to the Marketing Cloud tab.
22.. Click Triggered Sends.
33.. Click New.
44.. Enter a name.
55.. Select Case for the Object.
66.. Select Contact for the Recipient Lookup.
77.. Select the newly created triggered send data extension.
88.. To create a triggered send that is sent when a new Case is opened or closed, set your Field Criteria to:
Status equals Closed OR Status equals New
99.. Enter 1 OR 2 for Filter Criteria filter logging.
1100.. Include an if/else statement in your email content.
%%[Set @mySObject = SObjectSet @myRecordId = RecordIdset @Case = RetrieveSales
forceObjects(SObject,"Subject,Status,Priority,CaseNumber","Id", "=", RecordI
d)Set @CaseRow = Row(@Case, 1)Set @Subject = FIELD(@CaseRow,"Subject")Set @Sta
tus = FIELD(@CaseRow,"Status")Set @Priority = FIELD(@CaseRow,"Priority")Set @C
aseNumber = FIELD(@CaseRow,"CaseNumber")]%%<br><br>%%[ if @Status == "New" the
266

=== PAGE 271 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
n ]%%A new case has been created.%%[ else ]%%Your case has been updated.%%[ en
dif]%%<br>Case #:%%=v(@CaseNumber)=%% <br>Case Subject:%%=v(@Subject)=%% <br>C
ase Status:%%=v(@Status)=%%<br><br>
This code creates a dynamic triggered send that is sent for both new and closed cases, generated from
one triggered send definition and one email.
This example email displays a new case created with the status of New.
This example email displays an existing case updated to the status of Closed.
267

=== PAGE 272 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Link-Based Campaign from Custom Report
This Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement tutorial shows how to create a custom
report in Sales or Service Cloud. Use the report to identify contacts who clicked a link in an Engagement
email send.
In this example, Northern Trail Outfitters (NTO) manages contacts in Sales Cloud and creates and sends
emails in Engagement. An NTO marketer sends an email with three links for spring, fall, and winter
apparel. The marketer creates a report to identify contacts who have clicked the fall apparel link to use as
a list for sending a follow-up email.
Create Custom Report Type
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, click Setup.
22.. Click Create.
33.. Click Report Types.
44.. Click New Custom Report Type.
55.. Select Contacts for Primary Object.
66.. Enter Contacts with Links Clicked for Report Type Label.
77.. Enter a description.
88.. To store the report type, select Accounts & Contacts category.
99.. Select Deployed for Deployment Status.
1100.. Click Next.
1111.. Select Click to relate another object.
1122.. Select Individual Email Results for Object.
1133.. Select Each "A" record must have at least one related "B" record.
268

=== PAGE 273 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
1144.. Select Click to relate another object.
1155.. Select Individual Link Level Details for Object.
1166.. Select "B" records may or may not have related "C" records.
1177.. Save the new report type.
Create Report
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, navigate to Reports.
22.. Click New Report.
33.. To select the newly created report type, enter Contacts with Links Clicked.
44.. Click Create.
55.. Select which contacts to Show.
66.. Select Created Date for Date Field.
77.. Specify a date range.
88.. Add a filter as Link Name contains Fall.
99.. Drag the Contact ID and Date Opened fields into the report table.
1100.. Save the new report.
Tip Reporting across multiple emails can result in duplicate contacts. To prevent duplicates, select
Dedupe Subscribers on the email send screen, or filter the report results by email address and
manually eliminate duplicates.
Drip Campaign
This Marketing Cloud Connect tutorial shows how to use email send definitions and programs in
Marketing Cloud Engagement to automate and schedule sends to Sales or Service Cloud reports and
campaigns.
269

=== PAGE 274 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Use this tutorial to create a drip campaign, a series of automated messages, to communicate with
subscribers over an extended time. Use the messages to encourage subscriber participation in further
actions or sales.
In this example, Northern Trail Outfitters (NTO), an outdoor gear store, manages customer relationships
in Sales Cloud and sends emails in Engagement. NTO offers a 30-day free trial program and sends three
emails about the program each day:
•
A welcome email message to contacts who signed up for the program
•
A follow-up email to contacts who signed up for the program 14 days ago.
•
A follow-up email with a reminder about the trial expiration to contacts who signed up for the
program 27 days ago.
NTO sends the emails automatically from Engagement, using Sales Cloud reports that filter contacts by
corresponding dates.
11.. Tutorial Prerequisites
Complete these prerequisites before starting the Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud
Engagement Drip Campaign tutorial.
22.. Create a Report
Create reports to use in this Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement tutorial for
drip campaigns.
33.. Create Salesforce Email Send Interactions
Create Salesforce email send interactions to use in this Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud
Engagement tutorial for drip campaigns.
44.. Create an Automation
Create an automation to use in this Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement
tutorial for drip campaigns.
Tutorial Prerequisites
Complete these prerequisites before starting the Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud
Engagement Drip Campaign tutorial.
Complete these items before starting the Drip Campaign tutorial:
•
Install and set up Marketing Cloud Connect.
•
Ensure that Automation Studio is included in Engagement.
•
Create three test emails in Engagement for Day 1, Day 14, and Day 27 messages.
•
Create a test contact with a Simulation Date of today, a test contact with a Simulation Date of 14 days
ago, and a test contact with a Simulation Date of 27 days ago.
Note In this example, Contact includes a custom date field called Simulation Date that uses a
relative date value. You can use another date field, such as Create Date, for this tutorial.
270

=== PAGE 275 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
Create a Report
Create reports to use in this Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement tutorial for drip
campaigns.
11.. In Sales or Service Cloud, go to Reports.
22.. Click New Report.
33.. Select Contacts & Accounts for Report Type.
44.. Click Create.
55.. Select My Contacts for Show.
If Marketing Cloud Connect is configured as non-scope-by-user, select All Contacts.
66.. Select All Time for Created Date Range.
77.. Add a filter for Simulation Date equals today.
88.. Save the report as Day 1 Test.
99.. Repeat steps 1 through 7 with the filter set as Simulation Date equals 14 days ago.
1100.. Save the report as Day 14 Test.
1111.. Repeat steps 1 through 7 with the filter set as Simulation Date equals 27 days ago.
1122.. Save the report as Day 27 Test.
Create Salesforce Email Send Interactions
Create Salesforce email send interactions to use in this Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud
Engagement tutorial for drip campaigns.
The Salesforce email send interaction, or send definition, includes Sales or Service Cloud reports and
objects as options for sending. It sends tracking data from Engagement to Sales or Service Cloud. A
Salesforce send definition is an activity option in Automation Studio and can be added to an
automation.
11.. In Engagement, go to Email Studio.
22.. Click Interactions.
33.. Click Salesforce Sends.
44.. Click Create.
55.. Enter Day 1 Test as the name.
66.. Select the Day 1 Test email.
77.. Click Edit Recipients.
88.. Add Salesforce reports to Targeted.
99.. Search for Simulation Date equals today report and select.
1100.. Click OK and save.
1111.. Repeat steps 1 through 8 to create a Salesforce Email Send Interaction for Day 14.
1122.. Select Simulation Date equals 14 days ago report.
1133.. Click OK and save.
1144.. Repeat steps 1 through 8 to create a Salesforce Email Send Interaction for Day 27.
1155.. Select Simulation Date equals 27 days ago report.
271

=== PAGE 276 ===
Engagement: Distributing Marketing and Marketing Cloud Connect Marketing Cloud Connect
1166.. Click OK and save.
Create an Automation
Create an automation to use in this Marketing Cloud Connect for Marketing Cloud Engagement tutorial
for drip campaigns.
11.. In Engagement, go to Automation Studio.
22.. Click New Automation.
33.. Select Schedule.
44.. Click Ok.
55.. Name the Automation.
66.. Drag Salesforce Email Send activity onto the canvas.
77.. Click Choose.
88.. Select Day 1 Test.
99.. Click Done.
1100.. Drag Salesforce Email Send activity onto the canvas.
1111.. Click Choose.
1122.. Select Day 14 Test.
1133.. Click Done.
1144.. Drag Salesforce Email Send activity onto the canvas.
1155.. Click Choose.
1166.. Select Day 27 Test.
1177.. Click Done.
1188.. Click Schedule.
1199.. Select a start date and time.
2200.. Select a frequency for repeating the Automation activity.
2211.. Click Save.
2222.. Confirm the settings and Continue.
To include more emails in the campaign, create a report with the contacts to target. Create the email and
Salesforce Email Send Interaction. Pause the automation and edit it with the new activity. Then restart
the automation.
The drip campaign is now configured to send.
272