=== PAGE 1 ===
Marketing Cloud
Intelligence
Last Updated:2026.06.19

=== PAGE 2 ===
© Copyright 2000–2026 salesforce.com, inc. All rights reserved. Salesforce is a registered trademark of salesforce.com, inc.,
as are other names and marks. Other marks appearing herein may be trademarks of their respective owners.

=== PAGE 3 ===
CONTENTS
Integrate and Analyze Marketing Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence . . . . . . 1
Create a Support Ticket for Marketing Cloud Intelligence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 437
Dimensions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 462
Measurements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480
Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 506
Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
Harmonize Your Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 592
Media Transparency Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 640

=== PAGE 5 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence
With Marketing Cloud Intelligence you connect, harmonize, visualize, and act on your marketing data to
optimize performance within campaigns, discover insights in real-time, and then act on them. Learn
more about each in the associated help sections.
If you’re new to the Salesforce Help site and want to see how to navigate and find information, click here
to view a short instructional video.
Note Did you know there’s a new way to stay up to date on Marketing Cloud Intelligence features?
Check out Updates Released by Month—your monthly guide to the latest enhancements, new
connectors, and feature updates, all in one place.
Tip Did you know there’s a new and improved Marketing Intelligence? Built natively on the
Salesforce Platform, Marketing Intelligence harnesses the power of Data 360 and Agentforce to
boost campaign performance and reduce wasted spend. Check out the Marketing Intelligence
Quick Look.
Your Guide to Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Get Started with Marketing Setup and Maintain Understand the Data Model
Cloud Intelligence
Salesforce Help: Navigate the Salesforce Help: Account Salesforce Help: The Marketing
Intelligence Platform Settings Cloud Intelligence Data Model
Salesforce Help: Supported Salesforce Help: Workspace Salesforce Help: Data Stream
Browsers Settings Types
Salesforce Help: User Roles and Salesforce Help: Marketing Trailhead: The Marketing Cloud
Permissions Cloud Intelligence Security Intelligence Data Model
Trailhead: Get Started with Video: Data Model 101 Part 1
Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Video: Platform Overview Video: Data Model 101 Part 2
1

=== PAGE 6 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Video: Data Model 101 Part 3
Upload Data Analyze Data Harmonize Data
Salesforce Help: Uploading Data Salesforce Help: Activation Salesforce Help: Harmonization
with TotalConnect Center Center
Salesforce Help: Uploading Data Salesforce Help: Einstein Salesforce Help: Parent-Child
with API Connectors Marketing Insights
Trailhead: Uploading Data in Salesforce Help: Goals Salesforce Help: Data Fusion
Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Video: Uploading Data Via Salesforce Help: Pivot Tables Trailhead: Data Harmonization
TotalConnect
Video: Uploading Data Via API Salesforce Help: Reports Video: Getting the Most of the
Connectors Harmonization Center
Trailhead: Data Analysis in Video: Parent-Child
Intelligence
Visualize Data Use the Marketplace and Apps Learn More
Salesforce Help: Collections Salesforce Help: Get Started with Trailhead: Intelligence for
the Marketplace Marketing Cloud
Salesforce Help: Pages Salesforce Help: Get to know the Video: Get Started with
Marketplace Interface Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Playlist
Salesforce Help: Widgets Trailhead: Marketplace
Salesforce Help: Share and Video: Marketplace 101
Export
Trailhead: Data Visualization with
Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Video: Data Visualization 101
2

=== PAGE 7 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a Support Ticket for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Log a support case to enable permissions or if you are experiencing technical difficulties.
Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
With Marketing Cloud Intelligence, you can integrate all your data from marketing and advertising
platforms, web analytics, CRM, e-commerce, and more. You can then use this unified view of your data
to optimize campaign performance and discover and act on insights in real time.
Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Marketing Cloud Intelligence pulls data from a variety of sources with different data types. Each one of
these different data types has its own unique combination of dimensions and measurements. The
dimensions are made up of entities that have a certain relationship, or hierarchy, between them. It’s
important to maintain this relationship in Marketing Cloud Intelligence’s database, otherwise the data
can get aggregated incorrectly.
Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
One of the most crucial steps when working with Marketing Cloud Intelligence, is uploading data.
Since Marketing Cloud Intelligence supports numerous types of data, you can choose from many
different ways to upload it. During the upload stage, you can map your data to determine which fields
appear in Marketing Cloud Intelligence, and you can even create custom calculated fields to get the
most out of your data. All these actions are done in the Connect & Mix tab.
Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Granular Data Center is a premium feature designed for ingesting raw data into the system. Due to this
data’s granularity, row count can be hundreds of millions or even billions of rows. As opposed to other
data stream types, usage and pricing don’t go by the row count but rather by terabytes of storage
space. Some examples of data types that work best with Granular Data Center data streams are
keyword level data, event level data, log data, and granular geodata.
Dimensions
In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, a dimension is a qualitative non-numerical attribute that provides
information about your dataset, for example, campaign name and campaign ID. A dimension can’t be
counted, even when it includes a number. For instance, a campaign ID consists of numbers but you
can’t calculate them.
Measurements
In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, measurements are quantitative numerical data that you can count,
for example, number of clicks and emails opened. Measurements are used to set KPIs and analyze
your data.
Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Marketing Cloud Intelligence offers many tools so you can get a real-time view of all your marketing
data in one place. You get everything from standard key performance indicator (KPI) reporting to
complex visualizations required for audience segmentation, customer journey analytics, and predictive
modeling. And it’s all done in the Visualize tab in the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform.
Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Marketing Cloud Intelligence offers many tools for analyzing your data. All of these tools are found in
the Analyze and Act tab.
Harmonize Your Data
Marketing Cloud Intelligence offers multiple tools for harmonizing your data. Because you can upload
3

=== PAGE 8 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence
data from various sources, you need a way to merge the data and provide a complete view of your
marketing activity. In most cases, no single data source holds all relevant data on a marketing event or
campaign. The data is shared by the multiple platforms that digital marketers use to do things like
promoting the campaign on multiple channels. To analyze the full picture, harmonize data from all
sources into one. If data isn’t harmonized, you must analyze each source individually—making it a
challenge to gain insights quickly and efficiently.
Media Transparency Center
The Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center allows you to ingest, unify, and analyze
Media Plan and Delivery data to pace, track costs, and effectively optimize your media budgets and
campaigns.
Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To enhance your marketing intelligence solutions, check out the apps and tools offered on the
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace. Anyone can access the Marketplace, but depending on
your user role, your access might be limited.
4

=== PAGE 9 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Create a Support Ticket for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a Support Ticket for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Log a support case to enable permissions or if you are experiencing technical difficulties.
11.. At the top of the Help and Training page, click Contact Support.
22.. Under Trailblazer.account click Log In.
33.. In the Email text box enter your Marketing Cloud Intelligence email and then click Next.
A single-use code is sent to your email address.
5

=== PAGE 10 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Create a Support Ticket for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
44.. Copy and paste the code, and then click Continue.
55.. If you’re asked to connect a recovery account you can set up a recovery account or click Skip for Now.
66.. For the org that you need help with, click Get Support.
77.. Under Contact Support (1) click Create a Case(2).
88.. Enter these details to make sure your case is created successfully.
6

=== PAGE 11 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Create a Support Ticket for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
aa.. Enter a subject.
bb.. Enter a detailed description.
cc.. From the Product dropdown menu, select Intelligence.
dd.. From the Topic dropdown menu select the relevant topic for your case. You can select from these
7

=== PAGE 12 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
options.
Administration/Settings/Marketplace
Analyze & Act
Connect & Mix
Visualize
ee.. Enter your Workspace ID. To locate the ID, in Marketing Cloud Intelligence click your workspace
name on the top left side of the screen. Your ID appears under your workspace name. If not
applicable, you can enter 1234.
ff.. Add the URL for the page you’re experiencing difficulty with. Enter N/A if not applicable.
gg.. Before creating the ticket, take a look at the potential solutions that are automatically generated for
you.
hh.. Select the Timezone where you’re located or where you prefer being contacted.
ii.. Select the Severity of your case.
jj.. If you want to add other people to the case, enter the email addresses of the collaborators.
kk.. Upload files if necessary.
99.. Click Create Case.
After you create a case, you can track its progress and collaborate with support within the case.
Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
With Marketing Cloud Intelligence, you can integrate all your data from marketing and advertising
platforms, web analytics, CRM, e-commerce, and more. You can then use this unified view of your data
to optimize campaign performance and discover and act on insights in real time.
To get started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence, you set up an account and create workspaces to
integrate your data.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence offers additional functionality at an extra cost, such as Granular Data
Center, Sandbox, and Media Transparency. You can view the available features on the Add-on Features
tab in the Marketplace.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Updates Released by Month
Learn about recent updates to Marketing Cloud Intelligence (MCI), including changes to data
coverage, new metrics, and feature enhancements.
Get Ready for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Before we start, explore the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform. Then check that you are using one
of Salesforce’s support browsers. Finally, familiarize yourself with the user roles in Marketing Cloud
Intelligence.
Account Settings in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
A Marketing Cloud Intelligence account is divided into workspaces. An account can contain multiple
workspaces. Account settings allow you to manage and view data, user actions, and analytics for your
8

=== PAGE 13 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
account. In the account menu you can find account settings, such as account name and logo, number
of allowed workspaces, and rows, and all the way to more advanced settings, such as currency, and
password permissions.
Workspace Settings in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Each Marketing Cloud Intelligence account can have multiple workspaces. Each workspace has its own
data streams, dashboards, and reports. You typically use workspaces to separate clients, business
units, channel views, internal views, or role-based views—whatever best fits your needs.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Updates Released by Month
Learn about recent updates to Marketing Cloud Intelligence (MCI), including changes to data coverage,
new metrics, and feature enhancements.
April '26
KEY JOB AREA FEATURE Change or Update
Maintenance Platform Stability API error fixes and background maintenance.
March '26
KEY JOB AREA FEATURE Change or Update
Integrations—API Facebook Ads
•
Meta has updated click-through attribution in
Connectors
Meta Ads Manager. Meta now separates link
clicks from non-link interactions (likes, shares,
comments). Non-link interactions are now
classified as Engaged-Through conversions
rather than Click-Through.
This change may result in a decrease in reported
click-through conversion rates. This reflects a
change in reporting methodology, not a drop in
performance.
•
MCI now supports the engaged-through
attribution setting. This setting isn't mapped by
default but is included in total conversion
metrics. To report on it separately, map the
engaged-through attribution setting in your
configuration.
Yahoo! Japan Ads The Display Ads and Search Ads connectors have
been upgraded to v19 to ensure continued
compatibility and access to the latest platform
capabilities.
9

=== PAGE 14 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
March '26
KEY JOB AREA FEATURE Change or Update
LinkedIn Company
Metric Transition to Lifetime
Several Social Post metrics have been transitioned
from standard (SUM) metrics to Lifetime metrics.
These new metrics are unmapped by default and
require manual mapping:
•
Post Comments Lifetime
•
Post Likes Lifetime
•
Post Shares Lifetime
•
Post Impressions Lifetime
•
Post Clicks Lifetime
The previous standard metrics remain in the
dataset for structural consistency, but their values
are now set to 0 by the provider.
February '26
KEY JOB AREA FEATURE Change or Update
Integrations—API YouTube All reports containing views have been updated to
Connectors a new version, for example v.a2 to v.a3. Updated
reports now include an engaged_views column
to preserve the previous view-counting logic.
Sprout Social Campaigns Tag is now supported for improved
campaign tracking and reporting.
January '26
KEY JOB AREA FEATURE Change or Update
Maintenance Platform Stability API error fixes and background maintenance.
December '25
KEY JOB AREA FEATURE Change or Update
Integrations—API Google Ads These connectors are now upgraded to v22 for
Connectors continued compatibility and access to the latest
Google Ads Custom
platform capabilities.
Google AdWords
YouTube Ads
10

=== PAGE 15 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
December '25
KEY JOB AREA FEATURE Change or Update
Criteo Upgraded to v2025.10
Facebook Ads You can now exclude the action_target_id
extended property to better control how actions
are attributed and aggregated in reports.
November '25
KEY JOB AREA FEATURE Change or Update
Integrations—API Facebook Ads
•
DMA (Designated Market Area) breakdown is
Connectors
now supported for more granular geographic
performance analysis.
•
You can now apply Ad Account Default
Settings within Attribution Settings,
mirroring the configuration in Facebook.
Facebook Insights Page Followers is now supported for tracking
audience growth.
Google Search Ads360 Geo location breakdown is now supported, along
with DMA metro code for enhanced audience and
performance analysis.
Instagram by Facebook
Reels media object type is now supported.
Use these available metrics to measure
engagement and distribution:
•
Plays
•
Reach
•
Likes
•
Comments
•
Shares
•
Saved
•
Total Interactions (sum of likes, comments,
shares, and saves)
LinkedIn Ads Average Frequency is now available. Calculated as
impressions divided by reach to show how often
ads are seen by the same audience.
11

=== PAGE 16 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
November '25
KEY JOB AREA FEATURE Change or Update
X Ads DMA breakdown is now supported for regional
campaign reporting.
October '25
KEY JOB AREA FEATURE Change or Update
Integrations—API Facebook Ads Omni Events are now supported, providing unified
Connectors event-level data across Facebook event types for
more complete conversion tracking.
Google Ads + YouTube Age and Gender breakdowns are now supported.
Ads These demographics support more precise
audience insights.
Pinterest Ads
Use these supported metrics to measure video
distribution and compare paid versus organic
video start:
•
Reach
•
Frequency
•
Paid_Video_Starts
•
Organic_Video_Starts
•
Combine_Video_Start
Reddit Ads Now supports Location breakdowns by country for
geographic performance analysis.
Snapchat Ads
Use these new supported fields to track
conversions and lower-funnel engagement:
•
Paid Reach
•
Purchases
•
Purchases Value
•
Landing Page Views
•
Adds to Cart
•
Profile Clicks
Sprout
Use these new supported fields to analyze story
and video performance:
12

=== PAGE 17 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
October '25
KEY JOB AREA FEATURE Change or Update
•
Reach
•
Story Taps Back
•
Story Taps Forward
•
Story Exits
•
Story Replies
•
Poll Votes
•
Estimated Minutes Watched
•
Subscribers Gained from Video
•
Video Added to Playlists
•
Subscribers Lost from Video
•
Average Video Time Watched
TikTok Ads
Use these new supported fields to measure view
depth and completed payments:
•
Avg. play time per video view
•
Avg. watch time per video view
•
6 Sec Focused Views
•
Total Complete Payments
•
Total Complete Payments Value
Platform Enhancements Currency Support Caribbean Guilder (XCG) is now supported for
reporting and spend calculations.
Get Ready for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Before we start, explore the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform. Then check that you are using one of
Salesforce’s support browsers. Finally, familiarize yourself with the user roles in Marketing Cloud
Intelligence.
Location of all Help Topics
Beginning May 1, 2022, you can access Marketing Cloud Intelligence help documentation and training
materials in Salesforce Help. The Datorama Success Center is no longer available.
Navigate the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Platform
The Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform is divided into four tabs. Here you can explore the different
tabs.
Set Up Your First Workspace in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
After your Marketing Cloud Intelligence account is provisioned, you can now start setting up your
workspace. A Marketing Cloud Intelligence account is divided into workspaces. Each workspace is a
13

=== PAGE 18 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
separate working environment with its own permissions. When you make changes, the changes are
applied only to the workspace that you’re working in.
Supported Browsers
You can access Marketing Cloud Intelligence from a browser on a Windows, macOS, or Linux
computer.
User Roles and Permissions
Marketing Cloud Intelligence includes three types of user roles: viewer, power user, and admin. A user
role defines which actions a user can perform. Each user role has a default set of permissions, but you
can assign users with the same role different permissions. For example, one user with the viewer role
can view unpublished pages but another user with the viewer role can’t.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Videos
Use this video resource to learn more about Intelligence features.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Glossary
Familiarize yourself with Marketing Cloud Intelligence and other marketing terminology.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Security
Marketing Cloud Intelligence uses a variety of industry-standard and state-of-the-art security
technologies and procedures to help protect your information from unauthorized access, use, or
disclosure. All users must have a registered MFA method in order to access the Marketing Cloud
Intelligence platform directly. You can decide on which methods best suit your needs. Session timeout
is another form of security and determines the amount of inactive time after which a user is logged
out of the platform. The session timeout period can be set in the account settings. For security
purposes there is a forced timeout after five days regardless of inactivity. Keeping up with the evolving
security landscape is an ongoing, joint partnership between Marketing Cloud Intelligence and our
customers. As security threats grow more common, it’s important to implement stronger measures to
protect your business and customers.
IP Addresses for Inclusion on Allowlists in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Sometimes you need to set up a data stream via an SQL service provider or an FTPS. If you have a
firewall in place, you must allow specific IP addresses to ensure data is retrieved.
Location of all Help Topics
Beginning May 1, 2022, you can access Marketing Cloud Intelligence help documentation and training
materials in Salesforce Help. The Datorama Success Center is no longer available.
This table shows the new location for all Marketing Cloud Intelligence training materials.
Training Content Previous Location New Location
University Courses Success Center Trailhead
Legacy Content Success Center Trailmix
Knowledge Base Success Center
Marketing Cloud Intelligence
14

=== PAGE 19 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Training Content Previous Location New Location
Help
Intelligence Reports for
Engagement
Release Notes Success Center Salesforce Marketing Cloud
Release Notes
Videos Success Center
Salesforce Help
You can also use the Salesforce
search for videos.
Internal Help Articles Success Center Support Portal
Navigate the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Platform
The Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform is divided into four tabs. Here you can explore the different
tabs.
•
Visualize — (1) Visualize your data. Create collections, with dashboard and app pages, bring the data to
life with widgets and customize the views with filters.
•
Analyze & Act — (2) Analyze your data, and share the actionable insights through reports. Measure
KPIs with goals and actions.
•
Connect & Mix — (3) Import your data via data streams so you can classify and manipulate your data.
Here you can use any of the offered methods: API connectors, TotalConnect, LiteConnect. After you
import the data you can manipulate it with the various features available in the Connect & Mix tab.
•
Marketplace — (4) An ecosystem with Marketing Cloud Intelligence apps that offer a wide range of
solutions developed based on real use cases and customer feedback.
When you click a new tab, the left menu bar changes to display the available actions for the tab you
selected. For example, when you click the Visualize tab, the left menu bar shows your collections,
dashboard pages, and templates.
Set Up Your First Workspace in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
After your Marketing Cloud Intelligence account is provisioned, you can now start setting up your
workspace. A Marketing Cloud Intelligence account is divided into workspaces. Each workspace is a
separate working environment with its own permissions. When you make changes, the changes are
applied only to the workspace that you’re working in.
15

=== PAGE 20 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To set up a workspace: Admin
By default, a workspace can have up to 50 million rows. If you exceed this amount, an error message
appears, and you can’t create the workspace. To increase the number of rows, contact your Marketing
Cloud Intelligence representative.
11.. Log in to Marketing Cloud Intelligence with your username and password. The first time you log in, the
Welcome screen appears.
22.. To add your first workspace, click the Click here link.
33.. Enter these details.
aa.. Name–Enter your workspace name. (1)
bb.. Vertical–Select the targeted market that’s relevant to your workspace. (2)
cc.. Currency–The default behavior is to inherit the currency settings from the account. If you require a
16

=== PAGE 21 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
different currency, select it from the dropdown list. Cost data uploaded to the workspace is
converted according to the workspace’s currency. (3)
dd.. First Day of Week–Set the first day of the week. By default, it’s set to Monday. (4)
ee.. Culture–Select the country to define how numbers are displayed in the platform. For example,
100,000 for United States, 100.000 for Germany. (5)
ff.. Timezone–The time zone affects notifications and automatic scheduling, like report scheduling.
Data stream updates are performed at 6:00 AM in the workspace’s time zone. (6)
gg.. Apply Blind Periods–Blind periods are time periods when users with analyst and viewer roles can’t
see the updated data in the workspace. If you’re using a blind period, enter the number of days the
period lasts. (7)
44.. Save your workspace. You can now add users and upload your data.
See Also
Add a User in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Supported Browsers
You can access Marketing Cloud Intelligence from a browser on a Windows, macOS, or Linux computer.
To access Marketing Cloud Intelligence on a mobile device, your mobile browser must meet these
minimum requirements:
•
Screen resolution of at least 1024 x 768 (when browsers are maximized)
•
Cookies enabled
•
JavaScript enabled
If you use a browser other than the ones listed below, you aren’t able to log in to Marketing Cloud
Intelligence.
•
Google Chrome
•
Firefox
•
Internet Explorer
•
Microsoft Edge
•
Safari
Browser-Specific Compatibility
In general, Marketing Cloud Intelligence supports the current and prior major releases.
•
Chrome: Latest stable version supported.
•
Microsoft Internet Explorer:
- Version 11
- Compatibility View isn’t supported.
Note Microsoft Internet Explorer is no longer supported. If bugs occur with IE11, they can’t be
17

=== PAGE 22 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
fixed.
•
Mozilla Firefox: Latest stable version supported.
•
Safari: Latest stable version supported on macOS only.
•
Microsoft Edge: Latest stable version supported.
•
Mobile Browsers:
- Mobile Safari (iOS) — Latest stable version supported.
- Android — The default browser on Android 4.x.x supported.
Note The Marketing Cloud Intelligence app is no longer supported as of October 27th 2022.
User Roles and Permissions
Marketing Cloud Intelligence includes three types of user roles: viewer, power user, and admin. A user
role defines which actions a user can perform. Each user role has a default set of permissions, but you
can assign users with the same role different permissions. For example, one user with the viewer role can
view unpublished pages but another user with the viewer role can’t.
You can also create user groups. With a user group, all permissions in the group are applied to all the
users in the group. For more information how to create user groups, see Create a User Group
Each account has a pre-set number of user roles based on your account contract. For more information
about editing user roles, see Add a User in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Take a look at the table below to see which actions are permitted per user role.
Actions Viewer Power User Admin
Workspace User Filters (Applied to Users)
View and Interact with Collections
Leverage Instant SmartLenses
Leverage Einstein Marketing Insights
Pinned to Collections
Stay Connected with Marketing Cloud
Intelligence Mobile Apps
Receive and View Reports
Apply Date Filters
Apply Dimensions & Measurement Filters
Leverage Existing Calculated
Measurements
18

=== PAGE 23 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Actions Viewer Power User Admin
Manage Calculated Dimensions &
Measurements
Manage Measurements & Dimensions
Create/Manage Data Classifications
Create/Manage Patterns
Create/Manage Harmonized Dimensions
Fix & Maintain - Apply/Manage Fixes
Fix & Maintain - View/Receive Exception
Reports
Create/Edit Reports
Create/Edit Collections & Dashboard Pages
Configure the Media Transparency Center
(Premium Feature)
Create/Manage Einstein Marketing Insights
Bots
Create/Manage Goals
Create/Manage Actions
Manage Data Streams
Manage Workspaces
Manage Data Access Permissions/
Restrictions
Download Marketplace Apps
Custom Date Ranges
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Videos
Use this video resource to learn more about Intelligence features.
Topic Link to Video
General Navigate Intelligence Help
Integrations Configure your Slack Integration Slack Insights for Intelligence
19

=== PAGE 24 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Topic Link to Video
Visualize
Custom Widgets
Switch Currency Widget
Advanced Exports
Collections - Introduction
Analyze
Einstein Marketing Insights
Database Exports
Goals
Visual Pivot
Connect & Mix
Harmonization
Getting the most out of the Harmonization center
Harmonization Best Practices - Wrapping Up
Harmonization Best Practices - Patterns
Harmonization Best Practices - Parent Child
Parent Child - Override Dimension Hierarchies
Harmonization Best Practices - Mapping Formulas
Harmonization Best Practices - Data Fusion
Harmonization Best Practices - Data Classification
Harmonization Best Practices - Data Classification Methodologies
Harmonization Best Practices - Calculated Dimensions
Harmonization Best Practices -Overarching Entities
Fix & Maintain Overview
Fix & Maintain
Calculated Measurements
20

=== PAGE 25 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Topic Link to Video
Calculated Measurements - Deep Dive Video
Calculated Measurements - Introduction to Granularity & Aggregation
Calculated Measurements - Stable Aggregation Type
Calculated Measurements - Unstable Aggregation
Calculated Measurements - Auto Aggregation Type
Calculated Measurements - Troubleshooting
Marketplace & Apps
Intelligence Enhancements for Ecommerce
Data Dictionary
Customer Insights for Salesforce CDP
Email to web conversions App
Email to web conversion App - Enhancements
Audience Insights for Advertising Studio App
Workspace Health: Installing & Using the App - Part 1
Workspace Health: What are ‘Inspect’ entities - Part 2
Workspace Health: Configuring the App - Part 3
Search Keywords Insights App
Multi-Touch Attribution App
Lead Generation App
Marketing Insights for Sales Cloud App
SmartLense Apps: Installing
SmartLense Apps: Utilizing
Marketing Cloud Email App: Installing
Marketing Cloud Email App: Utilizing
Media Pacing App
21

=== PAGE 26 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Topic Link to Video
Social Intelligence App: Installing
Social Intelligence App: Utilizing
Connectors
B2C Connector for Commerce
Amazon Vendor Brand
Intelligence Tableau Connector
Data Model
Data Model - Part 1
Data Model - Part 2
Data Model - part 3
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Glossary
Familiarize yourself with Marketing Cloud Intelligence and other marketing terminology.
Term Description
Ad Operations Agency team that deals with the technical aspects
of launching and maintaining an advertising
campaign. Duties include: trafficking, placing
pixels, and QA tag errors.
Ad Server Computer system, which stores, maintains, and
serves advertising banners for one or more
websites. Ad servers program, track, and report
several statistics about website visitors, which are
used by advertisers to custom tailor ads and offers
to suit different categories of visitors.
Ad Targeting The practice of targeting ad content to user and
contextual data.
Adtech Advertising technology. A term that can apply to
anything from DSPs to Data Management
Platforms that focus exclusively on advertising.
Advertiser Company, organization, or individual who pays for
advertising space or time to present an
announcement or persuasive message to the
22

=== PAGE 27 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Term Description
public. They typically do so in order to achieve a
goal such as enhance brand awareness (branding),
influence a consumer to make a purchase (direct
response), and so on.
Agency A company that advises advertisers on how and
where to advertise. They’re responsible for
managing the advertiser’s media plan and are
expected to deliver success and provide reports to
prove their performance.
ARR Annual Recurring Revenue. The amount of
revenue a company is planning to consistently
bring in from deals every year.
Attribution Identifying a set of user actions (“events” or
“touchpoints”) that contribute in some manner to
a desired outcome.
Attribution Window The number of days that agencies or brands
designate when a user action is considered for
conversions.
Campaign A set of media that have a shared theme and
ideas to market a specific brand, product, or
concept. Most campaigns also include criteria
such as Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), a
specific start and end date, daily or overall
budgets, frequency restrictions, and targeting
based on user or inventory data.
Click Active user interaction with an ad that drives users
to a designated landing page.
Conversion When a user performs a desired action designated
by an agency or brand. For example, sign up,
purchase, or install app.
Cookie Information stored on a user’s computer by a
website.
Creative The actual graphic element that is used to fill a
placement or media buy.
Collection A collection is where you house pages, similar to
how a folder contains files.
Data Stream A connection to a data source in Marketing Cloud
23

=== PAGE 28 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Term Description
Intelligence - anything from a Google Analytics
API connection to a customized flat-file
connection.
Data Warehouse A central repository for all or significant parts of
the data that an enterprise's various business
systems collect. Example: AWS
Dimension Non-numerical values, which put the numerical
data in context. Qualitative values.
DMP Data Management Platform. Piece of software that
houses cookie level details about users relevant to
the given advertiser so that they can create
audience profiles for ad targeting purposes.
Examples: BlueKai, Adobe, and Lotame
DSP Demand-Side Platform. Helps advertisers buy ad
space (Display, Video, and so on), in an automated
or programmatic fashion. Examples: MediaMath,
Rocketfuel, and DBM.
Entity Any object in the platform that users want to
model and store information about. Entities are
recognizable concepts, either concrete or abstract,
such as people, places, things, or events, which
have relevance to the database. Every entity in use
MUST have a Key (defines unity) mapped.
ETL Extract, Transform, Load. Three database
functions that are combined into one tool to pull
data out of one database and place it into another
database.
Exchange A technology platform that facilitates buying and
selling from multiple ad networks.
Executive Workspace A collection of workspaces that exist in an
account. An accumulation of data across the
matching dimension values.
Granularity The level or depth of detail present in a set of
data.
Granular Data Center A storage repository that holds a vast amount of
raw data in its native format until it ‘s needed.
While a hierarchical data warehouse stores data in
24

=== PAGE 29 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Term Description
files or folders, a Granular Data Center uses a flat
architecture to store data.
Impression Number of times when an ad is loaded onto a site.
Log Level Data The collection of an abundant set of data points
gathered at a low level of granularity. This can
include granular information about bids or PII.
Mapping The process of correlating data source fields into
Marketing Cloud Intelligence fields.
Media Buy/Placement A specific place on a site where an ad is shown, or
a specific tactic to show ads on a site.
Measurement Numerical values, on which mathematical
operations are performed. Quantitative facts.
Page A page is created within a collection It can contain
several visual elements to represent data, which
are called widgets.
Pixel A tracker placed by an agency or brand that tracks
actions. For example, ads served, clicks,
conversions, landing page views.
Publisher The actual website where an advertisement is
served. Publishers are referred to as the “sell side”
of the business, their inventory being placements.
Reimmersion (of data) Taking data that’s calculated within the platform
post-ETL (for example, calculated dimensions or
calculated measurements) and mapping it into a
data stream to make it part of the data model.
Retargeting/Remessaging A form of online targeted advertising that’s
targeted to consumers based on their previous
internet actions.
Site The website from which media buys are acquired
and where advertisements are published.
SSP Supply Side Platform. A platform used on the
publisher’s side that sells ad space to buyers.
Complimentary to a DSP.
Strategy A plan of action for advertising, which is meant to
optimize performance.
25

=== PAGE 30 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Term Description
Widget A visual element representing data. This
visualization can be of various types. Examples:
Bar Graph, Donut Chart, or Table.
Workspace Each Account can contain several workspaces,
whereas each workspace has its own data
streams, calculations and Analyses, as well as
visualizations. Workspaces can represent different
advertised brands, product categories, or
geographical regions.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Security
Marketing Cloud Intelligence uses a variety of industry-standard and state-of-the-art security
technologies and procedures to help protect your information from unauthorized access, use, or
disclosure. All users must have a registered MFA method in order to access the Marketing Cloud
Intelligence platform directly. You can decide on which methods best suit your needs. Session timeout is
another form of security and determines the amount of inactive time after which a user is logged out of
the platform. The session timeout period can be set in the account settings. For security purposes there
is a forced timeout after five days regardless of inactivity. Keeping up with the evolving security landscape
is an ongoing, joint partnership between Marketing Cloud Intelligence and our customers. As security
threats grow more common, it’s important to implement stronger measures to protect your business and
customers.
To learn about our trust and compliance information, see:
•
Salesforce Trust and Compliance Documentation
•
Certifications and documents
•
Privacy Statement
Multi-Factor Authentication in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Multi-factor authentication (MFA) requires users to enter two or more pieces of evidence, or factors, to
prove identification. One factor is something the user knows, such as a username and password
combination. Other factors are verification methods that the user has in possession, such as an
authenticator app or security key. All users must have a registered MFA method in order to access the
Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform directly.
Single Sign-On (SSO) in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
If you’re the administrator of a Marketing Cloud Intelligence account, you can grant team members
access by signing into a central identity provider. SSO) makes access easier and more secure for
everyone. You can put the identity provider that you already trust in charge of authentication, while
team members can access Marketing Cloud Intelligence without another password to manage.
What Are Cookies?
Cookies temporarily store a small amount of information in a user’s browser. For example, logging in to
26

=== PAGE 31 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
a website, preferences for particular content, capping how often a user sees ads, or tracking what a
user does online. Cookies are set at the user level, allowing every user to customize their own cookie
settings.
Multi-Factor Authentication in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Multi-factor authentication (MFA) requires users to enter two or more pieces of evidence, or factors, to
prove identification. One factor is something the user knows, such as a username and password
combination. Other factors are verification methods that the user has in possession, such as an
authenticator app or security key. All users must have a registered MFA method in order to access the
Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform directly.
Note If you use single sign-on (SSO) to access the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform, you’re
required to use MFA for your SSO identity provider. See Salesforce Multi-Factor Authentication FAQ.
Supported Verification Methods in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
When a user logs in to Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the first time using Multi-Factor
Authentication, the user must select at least one verification method. It’s recommended to provide
users with several verification options.
Manage and Reset Multi-Factor Authentication From Your Profile in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can reset MFA from your profile. After MFA is reset, you are prompted to select a verification
method the next time you log in.
Manage and Reset Multi-Factor Authentication Settings in Marketing Cloud Intelligence at the
User Level
All users must have a registered MFA method to access the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform
directly. Admins can reset an MFA recovery process for users that lost, want to change or add an
authentication method. Users can also reset MFA from their Profile.
Supported Verification Methods in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
When a user logs in to Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the first time using Multi-Factor Authentication,
the user must select at least one verification method. It’s recommended to provide users with several
verification options.
Email and SMS text messages aren’t allowed as a second factor for MFA.
Supported verification methods:
Salesforce Authenticator
A Salesforce mobile app that provides secure and fast MFA via push notifications. It’s highly
recommended that users set up a PIN or biometric requirement on their mobile device to
ensure that unauthorized parties can’t access Salesforce Authenticator. For more information,
see the Salesforce Authenticator web page.
27

=== PAGE 32 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
One-time password generator
A third-party authenticator app, such as Google Authenticator or Authy, that generates specific
time-based, one-time passcodes that users enter when they log in.
Security key
A small physical device, such as a Yubikey or Google Titan Key, that users connect to their
computers when logging in.
Built-in authenticator
A service, such as Windows Hello or Touch ID, that verifies a user’s identity with a fingerprint, iris,
or facial recognition scan. This method is bound to a specific device, and users must register a
built-in authenticator on each device that they log in from.
Recovery code
We recommend registering this method as a backup option only. Generates a list of 10 codes
that you can copy or download. Each code can be used only once. This method doesn’t require
additional devices.
Manage and Reset Multi-Factor Authentication From Your Profile in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can reset MFA from your profile. After MFA is reset, you are prompted to select a verification method
the next time you log in.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To manage and reset MFA from your profile: All users
11.. To the right of the navigation bar, click the dropdown arrow (1) and then on your Intelligence user
name (2) to access your profile.
28

=== PAGE 33 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
22.. To reset MFA click Reset, to edit your MFA settings click Manage. For example, use Reset to change the
verification method or add another backup method.
33.. Selecting Reset prompts you to register a verification method next time you log in. It is recommended
to set a backup recovery method.
Manage and Reset Multi-Factor Authentication Settings in Marketing Cloud Intelligence at the
User Level
All users must have a registered MFA method to access the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform
directly. Admins can reset an MFA recovery process for users that lost, want to change or add an
authentication method. Users can also reset MFA from their Profile.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To manage and reset MFA settings: Admin with Manage Account Users permissions
29

=== PAGE 34 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
11.. To the right of the navigation bar, click the dropdown arrow, and then click Manage Users.
22.. Select the user, click More Actions, and then click Reset MFA.
The user is prompted to register a new verification method the next time they log in. Recovery can be
reset for one user at a time.
Note If MFA wasn’t enabled for the user you won’t see the option Reset MFA, rather Enable MFA.
33.. To add the MFA column to the user table, click the settings icon, then click Show / Hide columns, and
select MFA.
44.. There are three MFA statuses available.
aa.. Registered—the user successfully registered an authentication method and uses MFA to log into
Intelligence.
bb.. Enabled—the user is required to use MFA. In the next login the user is prompted to register for MFA.
cc.. Disabled—the user isn’t utilizing MFA to log into Intelligence. For example, a user using SSO to log
into Intelligence.
See Also
Manage and Reset Multi-Factor Authentication From Your Profile in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Single Sign-On (SSO) in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
If you’re the administrator of a Marketing Cloud Intelligence account, you can grant team members
access by signing into a central identity provider. SSO) makes access easier and more secure for
everyone. You can put the identity provider that you already trust in charge of authentication, while team
members can access Marketing Cloud Intelligence without another password to manage.
When you set up SSO as the default setting, your identity provider authenticates end users. When a user
wants to access Marketing Cloud Intelligence, all processes, policies, and security features that were set
up with your identity provider are applied. Security features that Marketing Cloud Intelligence provides,
such as two-step verification or the ability to reset passwords, are no longer in effect because your
identity provider handles all aspects of authentication.
Note RelayState redirection within SSO settings isn’t supported. The interaction between Marketing
Cloud Intelligence and SSO providers is only via authentication. After users are authenticated,
they’re directed to the relevant workspace and to the default login page in the Marketing Cloud
Intelligence platform.
After SSO is turned on, users can log in to the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform in two ways.
Using your identity provider portal (SSO vendor)
Idp initiated login
by clicking the Marketing Cloud Intelligence app.
Using the Users Direct Login page, which enables
SP initiated login you to go directly to your Marketing Cloud
Intelligence account online if you’re logged in to
30

=== PAGE 35 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
your identity provider. You could be redirected to
the Idp login page. You can find this URL on the
Single Sign-On Account Setting page under User
Direct Login URL.
Set Up SSO in Your Account in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
After you configure your identity provider, set up SSO in Marketing Cloud Intelligence with the
information you configured.
Identity Provider Configuration Settings with Marketing Cloud Intelligence SSO
Marketing Cloud Intelligence supports many providers. Each provider has its own requirements for
setting up SSO.
Set Up SSO in Your Account in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
After you configure your identity provider, set up SSO in Marketing Cloud Intelligence with the
information you configured.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To set up SSO in your account: Admin
For more information about configuring identify providers, see Identity Provider Configuration Settings
with Marketing Cloud Intelligence SSO
11.. To the right of the navigation bar, click the dropdown arrow, and then click the Account Settings icon.
22.. Select Single Sign-On.
33.. To enable SSO, under Single Sign-On Type, select SAML 2.0.
44.. Enter the remote login URL that you received from your identity provider.
55.. Enter the X.509 certificate that you received from your identity provider. If your X.509 certificate is
stored in a .pem file, open the file with a text editor and paste its contents in the text box.
66.. (Optional) You can change the SAML’s NameID format (The default is
urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:nameid-format:unspecified.)
77.. If the authentication context is required, select Require authentication context.
88.. Save your settings.
Identity Provider Configuration Settings with Marketing Cloud Intelligence SSO
Marketing Cloud Intelligence supports many providers. Each provider has its own requirements for
setting up SSO.
Click a link to view more information about the provider:
•
MS Active Directory 3.0
31

=== PAGE 36 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
MS Active Directory 2.0
•
Azure
Use these configuration settings to connect to Marketing Cloud Intelligence:
•
When configuring the Identifier ID and Reply URL, use the URL of the application that you use to log
into Marketing Cloud Intelligence:
- AWS US https://app.datorama.com
- AWS EU https://app-eu.datorama.com
- Azure US https://app-us2.datorama.com
- Azure EU https://app-eu2.datorama.com
•
When configuring the Sign-on URL field, enter the URL according to the Marketing Cloud Intelligence
application that you use: (this is the Users Direct Login Page)
- AWS US https://app.datorama.com/services/auth/sso/<account ID>
- AWS EU https://app-eu.datorama.com/services/auth/sso/<account ID>
- Azure US https://app-us2.datorama.com/services/auth/sso/<account ID>
- Azure EU https://app-eu2.datorama.com/services/auth/sso/<account ID>
If you’re using SAML2, follow these guidelines:
•
Marketing Cloud Intelligence uses SAML2 with the HTTP Redirect binding for SP to IdP and expects
the HTTP Post binding for IdP to SP.
•
You can find the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Customer URL (also called the Assertion Consumer
Service URL / ACS) in your Intelligence account on the Single Sign-on setting page.
•
The NameID must contain the user’s email address:
Format="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:nameid-format:unspecified"
•
Your identity provider might ask if you want to sign the SAML assertion, the SAML response, or both.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence requires the SAML response to be signed. You can choose signed or
unsigned for the SAML assertion.
What Are Cookies?
Cookies temporarily store a small amount of information in a user’s browser. For example, logging in to a
website, preferences for particular content, capping how often a user sees ads, or tracking what a user
does online. Cookies are set at the user level, allowing every user to customize their own cookie settings.
Cookie preferences in Marketing Cloud Intelligence are updated yearly. For security reasons, cookies are
sent only in requests to the domains that are associated with the cookie.
First-party cookies are stored by the domain (website) that you are directly visiting. First-party cookies let
website owners collect analytics data, remember language settings, and perform other useful functions
that help provide a good user experience.
Third-party cookies are created by domains other than the one that you are directly visiting. Third-party
cookies are used for cross-site tracking, retargeting, and ad serving.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence splits its cookies into three categories:
32

=== PAGE 37 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Necessary for basic website functionality. For
example, session cookies needed to transmit the
Required website, authentication cookies, and security
cookies. These cookies are always active and can’t
be disabled.
Required to open support tickets and, Screen
Functional Guides. These cookies are optional and can be
disabled.
Help improve Marketing Cloud Intelligence by
sending anonymous data regarding platform
Usage
usage. These cookies are optional and can be
disabled.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Cookies
Marketing Cloud Intelligence divides cookies into three areas: Required, Functional, and Usage.
Manage Cookie Settings
You can manage your Marketing Cloud Intelligence cookie settings.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Cookies
Marketing Cloud Intelligence divides cookies into three areas: Required, Functional, and Usage.
Required Cookies
Required cookies are necessary for basic website functionality. For example, session cookies needed to
transmit the website, authentication cookies, and security cookies. These cookies are always active, and
you can’t disable them.
COOKIE NAME BROWSER STORAGE DOMAIN
auth platform.datorama.com
ORIGINAL_ACCOUNT platform.datorama.com
sortState-[entity-list- platform.datorama.com
name]_[tenantId]
token platform.datorama.com
rc::a google.com
Authorization app.datorama.com
returnUrl oauth.datorama.com
user_features platform.datorama.com
33

=== PAGE 38 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
COOKIE NAME BROWSER STORAGE DOMAIN
non_secure_share_cookie_grou platform.datorama.com
ps
Functional Cookies
Functional cookies are required to open support tickets and access the Success Center, Knowledge Base,
and Screen Guides. These cookies are optional and can be disabled.
COOKIE NAME BROWSER STORAGE DOMAIN
user_credentials support.datorama.com
helpdesk_node_session support.datorama.com
_helpkit_session support.datorama.com
__utm* support.datorama.com
walkMe_wm-settings-cache-bust platform.datorama.com
user_features platform.datorama.com
WMS_424fcc65592a484aaff819 cdn.walkme.com
d0c101c9a8priority:"1"
424fcc65592a484aaff819d0c10 cdn.walkme.com
1c9a8-keysV2
WMS[guid=424fcc65592a484aa cdn.walkme.com
ff819d0c101c9a8, dict={html
class/id}]
_pendo_accountId.06853f4f-18 pendo.io
d8-4a1a-56bb-6a41791f14f2
_pendo_accountId.06853f4f-18 pendo.io
d8-4a1a-56bb-6a41791f14f2
_pendo_visitorId.06853f4f-18d8 pendo.io
-4a1a-56bb-6a41791f14f2
_pendo_visitorId.06853f4f-18d8 pendo.io
-4a1a-56bb-6a41791f14f2
_pendo_launcher- pendo.io
closed.06853f4f-18d8-4a1a-56b
b-6a41791f14f2
_pendo_launcher- pendo.io
34

=== PAGE 39 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
COOKIE NAME BROWSER STORAGE DOMAIN
closed.06853f4f-18d8-4a1a-56b
b-6a41791f14f2
_pendo_meta.06853f4f-18d8-4 pendo.io
a1a-56bb-6a41791f14f2
_pendo_meta.06853f4f-18d8-4 pendo.io
a1a-56bb-6a41791f14f2
_pendo_lastStepAdvanced.0685 pendo.io
3f4f-18d8-4a1a-56bb-6a41791f
14f2
_pendo_lastStepAdvanced.0685 pendo.io
3f4f-18d8-4a1a-56bb-6a41791f
14f2
_pendo_latestDismissedAutoAt. pendo.io
06853f4f-18d8-4a1a-56bb-6a41
791f14f2
_pendo_latestDismissedAutoAt. pendo.io
06853f4f-18d8-4a1a-56bb-6a41
791f14f2
_pendo_finalDismissedAutoAt.0 pendo.io
6853f4f-18d8-4a1a-56bb-6a417
91f14f2
_pendo_finalDismissedAutoAt.0 pendo.io
6853f4f-18d8-4a1a-56bb-6a417
91f14f2
active-contexts pendo.io
active-contexts pendo.io
_pendo_feedback_ping_sent.06 pendo.io
853f4f-18d8-4a1a-56bb-6a4179
1f14f2
_pendo_feedback_ping_sent.06 pendo.io
853f4f-18d8-4a1a-56bb-6a4179
1f14f2
_pendo_receptive_ping_sent.06 pendo.io
853f4f-18d8-4a1a-56bb-6a4179
1f14f2
35

=== PAGE 40 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
COOKIE NAME BROWSER STORAGE DOMAIN
_pendo_receptive_ping_sent.06 pendo.io
853f4f-18d8-4a1a-56bb-6a4179
1f14f2
Usage Cookies
Usage cookies help improve the Marketing Cloud Intelligence product by sending anonymous data
regarding platform usage. These cookies are optional and can be disabled.
COOKIE NAME BROWSER STORAGE DOMAIN
amplitude_unsent_identify_403 platform.datorama.com
0ac21c39fafde97feb30c44fef61
0
amplitude_unsent_4030ac21c3 plat
9fafde97feb30c44fef610
Manage Cookie Settings
You can manage your Marketing Cloud Intelligence cookie settings.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To manage cookie settings: Admin
11.. On the right side of the navigation bar, click the dropdown arrow, and click your profile.
22.. Under Settings, click Cookie Consent Manager.
33.. Use the toggle to enable or disable cookie settings. You can’t disable Required cookies.
44.. Click Save Settings.
IP Addresses for Inclusion on Allowlists in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Sometimes you need to set up a data stream via an SQL service provider or an FTPS. If you have a firewall
in place, you must allow specific IP addresses to ensure data is retrieved.
This table describes which IP addresses must be allowed in the firewall (according to service and
environment).
Note PROD-US2 and PROD-EU2 are Azure environments. Some services have two IP addresses that
need to be allowed, make sure you allow both IP addresses.
36

=== PAGE 41 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Service Environment
PROD - US PROD - US2 PROD - EU PROD - EU2
Python Integration
34.195.192.26
52.0.230.128
Data Import and
54.163.226.11 20.41.43.59 35.157.8.65 40.67.249.123
Data Export
Services
54.83.10.143 20.44.73.165 54.93.174.35 52.155.226.154
54.227.219.146 40.65.212.209 52.155.230.152
Reserved External
20.69.195.34 20.67.202.77
IP (see note)
20.69.196.125 20.67.202.79
20.69.196.152 20.67.202.98
20.69.196.150 20.67.202.111
20.69.196.108 20.67.202.90
VPC S3 Endpoint vpce-7e4ef417 vpce-f678ba9f
ID
Important Information
•
Azure uses Azure Storage Service Endpoints in all subnets to optimize and secure access. When
accessing Azure Storage, the traffic comes from Marketing Cloud Intelligence’s internal Azure IP
addresses. When using a firewall on the Azure Portal, you can only allow private IP address ranges and
VNETS that belong to the same account. One possible workaround for this issue, is to set up an SFTP
server in your VNET and have Marketing Cloud Intelligence send reports to that server. See Microsoft
Learn: Azure virtual network service endpoints. Another workaround is to run a command in Cloud
Shell in the Azure Portal or locally (requires Azure CLI).
The subnet ID for Azure US is:
az storage account network-rule add --account-name
<inputaccountname> --subnet /subscriptions/009fdd36-efea-4a4a-a0ec-173c31f61
22a/resourceGroups/Networking-RG/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetwork
s/Prod-VNET/subnets/aks-prod-us2-green
az storage account network-rule add --account-name
<inputaccountname> --subnet /subscriptions/009fdd36-efea-4a4a-a0ec-173c31f61
22a/resourceGroups/Networking-RG/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetwork
37

=== PAGE 42 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
s/Prod-VNET/subnets/aks-prod-us2-blue
Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/Prod-IE-VNET/subnets/SF-K8S-EU2-G3-node is the ID of our
subnet on Azure EU. The subnet ID for Azure EU is:
az storage account network-rule add --account-name
<inputaccountname> --subnet /subscriptions/a6dcb2d5-c7e2-488d-9187-c8d8e5b68
789/resourceGroups/Prod-IE-RG/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/Pr
od-IE-VNET/subnets/aks-prod-eu2-green
az storage account network-rule add --account-name
<inputaccountname> --subnet /subscriptions/a6dcb2d5-c7e2-488d-9187-c8d8e5b68
789/resourceGroups/Prod-IE-RG/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/Pr
od-IE-VNET/subnets/aks-prod-eu2-blue
•
Reserved External IP - If you’re in the Azure environment, allow these IP addresses as well, due to
future updates to the Azure IP addresses.
•
Marketing Cloud Intelligence relies on a technology called websockets to be enabled in order for the
platform to work correctly. Some IT departments restrict communication via websockets, and this can
lead to dashboards not loading correctly or at all. To test if websockets are enabled, navigate to
https://websocketstest.com/. If for some reason they aren’t working correctly, contact your IT
department. If you encounter problems despite websockets being allowed in your environment, then
contact Marketing Cloud Intelligence support.
•
For Amazon S3 services, when the client's bucket is located in the same region as Marketing Cloud
Intelligence’s bucket, the client should whitelist the VPC endpoints instead of the public IP's (as
described in the table above). For more information, see Controlling Access from VPC Endpoints with
Bucket Policies
These are the available regions:
- (AWS US) is in Amazon region us-east-1
- AWS EU) is in Amazon region eu-central-1
Account Settings in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
A Marketing Cloud Intelligence account is divided into workspaces. An account can contain multiple
workspaces. Account settings allow you to manage and view data, user actions, and analytics for your
account. In the account menu you can find account settings, such as account name and logo, number of
allowed workspaces, and rows, and all the way to more advanced settings, such as currency, and
password permissions.
After you receive your Marketing Cloud Intelligence login information, a Salesforce representative creates
an account for you.
Account Analytics in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Measure user engagement and analyze user actions. Get a holistic view of page views and where
38

=== PAGE 43 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
activity is high or low.
Customize Your Account in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
After an account is created for you, you can now customize it with your logo and specify access
settings.
Activity Log in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Admin users can view and audit changes made in the account in the activity logs. The Account activity
log shows high-level changes, such as adding and deleting users and changing the account row limits.
The Entity activity log lists the changes made to a specific entity, such as a data stream, report, and
collection.
Exchange Rates in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Manage your exchange rates easily and intuitively, see market rates, and export and customize your
exchange rate table. You can set exchange rates at both the account and workspace levels.
Manage Users in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Admins with Manage Account Users permissions can view and manage users across their account and
workspaces from account settings in the Manage Users tab.
Manage User Groups in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can create a user group to apply a set of content permissions and workspace user filters to users
who need access to specific accounts or workspaces. A user role determines what a user can and can’t
do, while a user group determines where the user can apply these permissions. You can assign a user
to more than one user group.
Change Your Marketing Cloud Intelligence Platform Language
You can change the default language for a user or just for the current session at login. This is done per
user at the account level.
Switching Between Accounts in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Switching between accounts can be done through the account settings. This enables you to view
another account’s settings, account users, workspaces, data streams, and collections.
Account Deactivation in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Marketing Cloud Intelligence offers two types of customer accounts: Paying and POC. If an account
expires and no renewal contract has been issued, a deactivation process is automatically initiated.
Account Analytics in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Measure user engagement and analyze user actions. Get a holistic view of page views and where activity
is high or low.
The report is available both at the account and workspace level. Account level data can be viewed for all
your workspaces in the associated account.
If you are an admin and have access to all the workspaces in your account, you can view both Account
and Workspace Analytics.
Account Analytics Metrics in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Account Analytics measures page views and user activity.
39

=== PAGE 44 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
View Page Activity in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can monitor total page views and average views per the selected time period in the Account
Analytics dashboard. The information is dynamic and changes according to the filters you select.
View Your User Activity in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
See the total active users in your account broken down by a time period, workspace and/or
dashboards.
Data Row Usage in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
When you upload a file into Marketing Cloud Intelligence, each row of data in the file occupies a row
of data in the Intelligence database. Row usage is calculated as the sum of rows in the database for a
specific account or workspace. Each Intelligence account has a set number of rows in the database
that can be divided between the workspaces in the account.
See Also
Workspace Analytics Report in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Account Analytics Metrics in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Account Analytics measures page views and user activity.
Page Views counts every time a user loads a published page. The dashboard shows you which collections
are viewed most. You can also monitor:
•
Page views for both licensed and anonymous users. Anonymous users can be users that open
dashboard pages shared with them via Share & Embed.
•
When a page is refreshed or clicked.
•
Each time a page is shown.
Active Users counts unique users that performed actions during a selected time period. To be an active
user, the user must perform one of the following actions:
•
Log in to Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
View a page
•
Switch accounts or workspaces.
Note If an entity is deleted, for example a dashboard page is deleted, the deleted entity is still
measured in the report, but you can’t see it in the breakdowns.
View Page Activity in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can monitor total page views and average views per the selected time period in the Account
Analytics dashboard. The information is dynamic and changes according to the filters you select.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To view page activity Admin
40

=== PAGE 45 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
11.. To the right of the navigation bar, click the dropdown arrow, and click the Account Settings gear icon.
22.. In the left menu, select Account Analytics.
33.. Click the Engagement tab.
View the total number of page views [1] based on the time period, workspaces, and dashboards pages
that you defined. Compare the total number of page views between time periods. For example, total
page views during the past 90 days versus the 90 days before the selected period (previous period).
Switch between the average page views per day, week, or month [2].
View the percentage of page views each collection has overall [3], and the most popular pages [4]. Click
a page name to view in a new tab.
Note Pages not accessed during the defined time period aren’t counted. For example, configuration
data isn’t counted.
View Your User Activity in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
See the total active users in your account broken down by a time period, workspace and/or dashboards.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To view user activity Admin
11.. To the right of the navigation bar, click the dropdown arrow, and click the Account Settings gear icon.
22.. In the account menu, select Account Analytics.
33.. Click the User Activity tab.
Note If you don’t see the User Activity tab, in Account settings, uncheck Hide Account Analytics
User Level Data.
View the total number of unique active users [1] based on the time period. Compare the total number
of active user views between time periods. For example, total number of active users during the past
90 days versus the 90 days before the selected period (previous period). View the Daily Active Users
per day, week, or month [2].
Note Days without active users are considered zero days and are included in the average.
View the Most active User Groups during the total number of active days. [3] View the Most active
users [4]
Note Users who don’t belong to a user group are grouped under No User Group.
44.. Apply filters to change the data displayed on the page. For example, if you filter by a specific
workspace, only the data of the selected workspace is counted and displayed.
Note For Time Period, if you select Last 24 Hours, it doesn’t include the overtime chart because
41

=== PAGE 46 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
account analytics doesn’t support hourly analysis. The Workspaces filter is available only at the
account level.
Data Row Usage in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
When you upload a file into Marketing Cloud Intelligence, each row of data in the file occupies a row of
data in the Intelligence database. Row usage is calculated as the sum of rows in the database for a
specific account or workspace. Each Intelligence account has a set number of rows in the database that
can be divided between the workspaces in the account.
Monitor Marketing Cloud Intelligence Database Row Usage
You can view your overall and current row usage at the account and workspace levels. Row usage is
refreshed every hour.
Monitor Marketing Cloud Intelligence Database Row Usage
You can view your overall and current row usage at the account and workspace levels. Row usage is
refreshed every hour.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To monitor row usage Admin
11.. To the right of the navigation bar, click the dropdown arrow, and click the Account Settings gear icon.
22.. In the account menu, select Data Rows Usage.
33.. View live row usage, and a breakdown of workspaces by row usage.
These system measurements reflect the total row count of a data stream in a workspace:
•
Data Stream Job Source Rows—Represents the number of rows in the original files. This number is
close to the true number when there’s no Media Transparency Center or data load rules in the
workspace.
•
Data Stream Job Added Rows—The number of added rows for each job the data executed.
•
Data Stream Effective Total Rows— This measurement reflects the actual number of rows the data
stream holds for the specified date range. Row count is broken down by Data Date with Media
Transparency and factors included.
•
Data Stream Total Rows — Row count is broken down by Data Date without any factors.
You can query these metrics in pivot tables and page widgets.
Note It’s recommended to use the Data Stream Effective Total Rows measurement because it
accounts for special cases like Media Transparency Center’s row factoring.
42

=== PAGE 47 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Customize Your Account in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
After an account is created for you, you can now customize it with your logo and specify access settings.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To edit account settings Admin
Some fields are disabled as they are defined according to your license. For any questions, reach out to
your Marketing Cloud Intelligence representative.
11.. On the right side of the navigation bar, click the dropdown arrow and select the Account Settings gear
icon.
22.. Under General, enter the following information:
••
Change your account name.
••
Select your country.
••
Upload a logo.
33.. Under Settings, enter the following information:
••
Select your culture. This affects how numbers appear in the system.
••
Select a currency. This is only available if you are a System Admin.
••
Admins manage user access by default - To allow admins to edit user settings, select.
••
User Password Expiration Days - Set the number of last saved passwords, meaning a new password
can’t match the last number of passwords that were used.
••
Show Notifications To - Assign which user roles receive notifications.
••
Default Data Source Authentication Settings - Specify whether the data source is public or private
to determine the sharing level a new data source receives when added to the workspace.
••
Access Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace - Select which minimum user role can access
the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace.
Note Viewers can’t install apps. They can only view them.
••
Access Workspace Installed Apps - Select which user role can access workspace-installed apps.
••
Require Multi-Factor Authentication - if you want all account users to use multifactor
authentication.
••
Hide Account Analytics User Level Data - to hide the user activity section and any user-specific
tracking data within account analytics.
••
Session Timeout - Define the number of minutes of inactivity after which the user is logged out.
••
Timezone - Select your time zone.
••
Upload Fonts - Upload any TFF font file to your account and then use it in your dashboards.
44.. Under Premium Modules, enter the following information:
••
Viewers can Edit Page Date Ranges - to allow viewers the ability to edit page date ranges.
••
Remove Account/Workspace Notion from Reports - to remove the name of the account or
workspace from reports.
••
Change the icon used for custom widgets.
55.. Configure and enable the help menu links in the platform. The help menu appears at the top right of
the navigation bar. Your changes are reflected in the help menu after refreshing the page.
43

=== PAGE 48 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Set the Currency and Date Format at the Account Level
You can specify how to display dates and numbers based on the country. When you set the currency at
the account level, it’s applied to all the workspaces.
Set the Currency and Date Format at the Account Level
You can specify how to display dates and numbers based on the country. When you set the currency at
the account level, it’s applied to all the workspaces.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To edit account settings Admin
11.. To the right of the navigation bar, click the dropdown arrow and select the Account Settings gear icon.
22.. Scroll down to the Settings section.
33.. From the Culture dropdown, select the country for the account.
44.. From the Currency dropdown, select the currency.
55.. Save your settings.
Note When connecting an API connector, Marketing Cloud Intelligence converts the currency
from the source currency to your account or workspace currency. Currency is calculated every day
for uploaded data according to the exchange rate of that day. The default is to get the currency
setting from the source. If the source’s setting is inaccurate, set the currency setting for the
specific data stream yourself.
66.. If you want to add culture settings to an existing data stream:
aa.. On the Connect & Mix tab, select the data stream.
bb.. Under More Options, select Use account culture settings.
cc.. Save your settings.
Activity Log in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Admin users can view and audit changes made in the account in the activity logs. The Account activity
log shows high-level changes, such as adding and deleting users and changing the account row limits.
The Entity activity log lists the changes made to a specific entity, such as a data stream, report, and
collection.
Manage the Account Activity Logs in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Admin users can view and audit changes made in the account in the activity logs. The Account activity
log shows high-level changes, such as adding and deleting users and changing the account row limits.
Manage the Entity Activity Log in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The entity activity log shows a detailed view of any changes made to a specific entity, such as a data
stream, report, or collection.
44

=== PAGE 49 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Manage the Account Activity Logs in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Admin users can view and audit changes made in the account in the activity logs. The Account activity
log shows high-level changes, such as adding and deleting users and changing the account row limits.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To monitor account activity logs Admin
You can monitor the activity log from the Account tab:
•
Account - Here you can see all changes that occurred within the account at the account level, such as a
new user that was created, a user that logged in, and a workspace setting that was modified.
11.. To the right of the navigation bar, click the dropdown arrow and click the Account Settings gear icon.
22.. In the account menu, select Activity Log.
33.. To change the date for the log, use the date picker.
44.. To view the activity of a specific workspace, search for the workspace or select it from the dropdown.
55.. To export the activity log, click Export.
66.. To edit the log’s settings, click the Settings icon.
77.. Click an activity log row to display the change’s details, such as who made the change, when, and what
was changed. To view the entity, click the go to entity icon.
Manage the Entity Activity Log in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The entity activity log shows a detailed view of any changes made to a specific entity, such as a data
stream, report, or collection.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To monitor entity activity logs Admin
The entity log is available for the following entities:
•
Data stream - In order to view the activity log, make sure to expand the advanced settings.
•
Report
•
User
•
Workspace
•
Account
•
Calculated dimension
•
Calculated measurement
•
Pivot table
•
Goals
•
Actions
•
User profile
•
Workspace advanced settings
45

=== PAGE 50 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Workspace tagging
•
Workflow
•
Data stream template
•
Data load rules
•
Hierarchies
•
Data fusion
•
Filtered measurements
•
Highlighting rules
•
Collections
•
Dashboard page
To view the entity activity log for any entity other than collections or dashboard pages, complete these
steps:
11.. Select the entity you want to view the entity log for. For example, select a report or a pivot table.
22.. Click Edit.
33.. Scroll to the bottom of the page, and on the left side click Activity Log.
To view the entity activity log for a collection or dashboard page, complete these steps:
11.. Select the collection or dashboard page you want to view the activity log for.
22.. Click More in the top menu bar.
33.. Select Activity Log.
The activity log displays all the changes made to the selected entity. From the log you can:
•
Export the activity log to Excel by clicking the export icon.
•
Edit the table’s settings by clicking on the settings icon.
•
Click on an activity log row to display the change’s Log Details. You can see all the change details. For
example, see who made the change, when, and what was changed.
Exchange Rates in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Manage your exchange rates easily and intuitively, see market rates, and export and customize your
exchange rate table. You can set exchange rates at both the account and workspace levels.
When cost data is uploaded into Marketing Cloud Intelligence, it’s converted according to the daily
exchange rate based on the currency set at the account or workspace level. You can also convert currency
at a fixed exchange rate for a limited time period.
Add an Exchange Rate at the Account Level in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can select an exchange rate at both the account and workspace levels. You can set your workspace
to inherit the exchange rate set at the account level.
46

=== PAGE 51 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Add an Exchange Rate at the Account Level in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can select an exchange rate at both the account and workspace levels. You can set your workspace
to inherit the exchange rate set at the account level.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To edit account settings Admin
11.. To the right of the navigation bar, click the dropdown arrow and select Account Settings gear icon.
22.. In the account menu, select Exchange Rates.
33.. To add a new exchange rate, click the plus (+) icon.
Manage Users in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Admins with Manage Account Users permissions can view and manage users across their account and
workspaces from account settings in the Manage Users tab.
There are three Manage Users tabs. In each tab you can modify the table view from the settings icon to
add or hide table columns, or reset table settings:
•
Account Users — View and manage all users that exist in the account. Edit, delete, copy, enable, and
disable users. View user information, for example, user role, last login Date, and the workspaces a user
has access to.
•
Access Requests — View and manage all the access requests for your account and workspaces.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence users such as support agents or success architects are required to
request access and receive admin approval in order to access an account or workspace in Marketing
Cloud Intelligence. Without admin approval, access isn’t possible. When an access request is made,
the admin receives an email notification with the access request details.
Access can be approved or denied directly from the email, or from the Request Access tab.
Access is always temporary—between 24 hours and 90 days, and can be revoked at any point.
View the access request information, for example, access time, workspace, request status, if the
request was made by a single user or a user group, and access reason.
•
Access Invitations — Invite Intelligence users to gain access to your workspace using the access
invitation tab. View and manage your list of invitations, revoke existing invitation, and send new
invitations. Users receive an email invitation where they can accept or decline the invitation within two
weeks.
Add a User in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
When you add users, you can specify their user role and permissions to control which actions they can
take and which features they have access to.
Collection Permissions in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Admins can set permissions to control access to collections for user groups, power users, and viewers.
If a viewer has access to several workspaces, you can set permissions for each collection individually.
Delete a User in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
47

=== PAGE 52 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
When a user creates an entity, that user is the entity owner. If an entity owner is deleted, the entities
created by that user become unowned. Some entities, such as actions, report schedulers, and data
streams with specific retrieval settings, require an owner to function properly. When a user is being
deleted, Marketing Cloud Intelligence checks whether the user owns entities that require an owner.
You can then assign the entity to a new owner to keep the entities functioning properly.
Re-enable a Disabled User in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
A Marketing Cloud Intelligence Admin can re-enable a user or another admin. Users can be manually
disabled. You can also disable users automatically if they’re inactive for a certain number of days.
Invite a User in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Invite Intelligence users to gain access to your workspace using the Access Invitation tab. Users have
two weeks to accept or decline invitations. An email confirmation is sent to you when the invitation is
accepted. You can view the invitation statuses in the Access Invitation tab.
Token API and Authorization Settings in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Marketing Cloud Intelligence uses unique tokens to identify users and grant access to API resources. A
user generates a token on the intelligence platform to be included in subsequent API calls. Account
admins can enable or disable the Token API generator for specific users.
Add a User in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
When you add users, you can specify their user role and permissions to control which actions they can
take and which features they have access to.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To edit account settings Admin
11.. On the right side of the navigation bar, click the dropdown arrow and select Manage Users.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Under General Info, enter the following information:
aa.. Enter the user’s email address. The email address is the username when logging in to Marketing
Cloud Intelligence.
bb.. Enter the user’s first and last name.
cc.. For Status, select Enabled to give the user access to Marketing Cloud Intelligence. When the status
is set to Disabled, the user can’t access Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
dd.. View Original Account Dropdown - Select this option to enable the Original Account dropdown list.
Useful when you want to change the user’s original account.
ee.. Original Account - Displays the account that the user was created in. If you want to change the
account, select View Original Account Dropdown. The user then receives all the permissions
defined for this account, unless the user is assigned to a user group.
ff.. Current Account - The account the user is active in at this moment. If the user switches accounts,
the name of the account appears instead.
gg.. Select the language of the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform.
hh.. If you want to set the landing page that appears when the user logs in to Marketing Cloud
Intelligence, select Manage Home Screen and select a landing page. If you select Auto, the user’s
48

=== PAGE 53 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
landing page is the first workspace in the list that the user set up for themselves.
44.. Under Permissions, enter the following information:
aa.. Assign the user a role
Note Each account has a limit to the number of available user roles. Select the required
permissions.
bb.. If you want to assign the user to a user group, select the User Group radio button and then select
the name of the user group from the dropdown.
Note When a user is part of a user group, the user is no longer a separate entity. Therefore, the
permissions for that user are managed through the user group settings.
cc.. Select the account and workspaces that the user is permitted to access.
dd.. Save your settings.
See Also
User Roles and Permissions
Collection Permissions in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Admins can set permissions to control access to collections for user groups, power users, and viewers. If
a viewer has access to several workspaces, you can set permissions for each collection individually.
Three collection permissions are available.
•
Restricted—Users can’t see this collection.
•
View—Users can view the collection, but can’t make changes.
•
Edit—Users can view and edit the collection.
Set Individual Collection Permissions in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Set permissions to manage user access to your collections. The default collection permission table
columns are collection, workspace, account, and permissions. You can show or hide additional
columns in the table settings.
Set Individual Collection Permissions in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Set permissions to manage user access to your collections. The default collection permission table
columns are collection, workspace, account, and permissions. You can show or hide additional columns
in the table settings.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To set collection permissions Admin, and permissions to manage account users.
11.. To the right of the navigation bar click the dropdown arrow and then Manage Users.
22.. Select the user and click Edit.
49

=== PAGE 54 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
33.. In the Permissions section, click Manage Collections.
44.. Select a collection, and click Change Permission.
55.. Select the permission.
66.. On the Collection Permissions page, click Save, and then click Save again on the Manage Users page.
Delete a User in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
When a user creates an entity, that user is the entity owner. If an entity owner is deleted, the entities
created by that user become unowned. Some entities, such as actions, report schedulers, and data
streams with specific retrieval settings, require an owner to function properly. When a user is being
deleted, Marketing Cloud Intelligence checks whether the user owns entities that require an owner. You
can then assign the entity to a new owner to keep the entities functioning properly.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To manage entity owners Admin
To own actions or data streams: Admin
To own report schedulers: Power User or Admin
11.. To the right of the navigation bar click the dropdown arrow and then Manage Users.
22.. Select the user, and click Delete.
33.. If the user owns entities that can’t function properly without an owner, click Assign New Owner.
44.. Select a new owner.
Note
••
If you don’t want to delete a user you can disable a user. Disabled users can’t take any actions,
but the entities still function properly. Disabled users are counted in the number of permitted
users in the account.
••
You can assign each entity a different owner. When selecting a new owner for an entity the list
of users will only include eligible owners.
55.. Click Next, then Done.
Re-enable a Disabled User in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
A Marketing Cloud Intelligence Admin can re-enable a user or another admin. Users can be manually
disabled. You can also disable users automatically if they’re inactive for a certain number of days.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To enable a disabled user Admin
11.. To the right of the navigation bar, click the dropdown arrow, and then Manage Users.
22.. In the User table, select the user.
33.. In the Status column, click the toggle to Enable. The user is now enabled.
50

=== PAGE 55 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
44.. To reset a password, click Reset Password from the top toolbar. The user receives an email prompting
them to reset their password.
Invite a User in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Invite Intelligence users to gain access to your workspace using the Access Invitation tab. Users have two
weeks to accept or decline invitations. An email confirmation is sent to you when the invitation is
accepted. You can view the invitation statuses in the Access Invitation tab.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To approve a user invitation: Admins with the Manage Account Users checkbox
enabled
Note A Paying Account user can’t be invited to a Partner account.
11.. To the right of the navigation bar click the dropdown arrow and then Manage Users.
22.. Click the Access Invitations tab.
33.. To create a new invitation, click Invite User.
44.. Enter the user's email address. To add another user to the invitation, click Add Email Address.
Note The invited users keep their original user permissions. For example, if you invite an admin
user, they have admin permissions in the selected workspaces.
55.. Select the workspaces you want the user to access from the drop-down menu.
66.. Select the time period.
77.. Click Invite. The user receives an email where they can accept or decline the invite.
88.. To revoke an invitation, select the invitation and click Revoke. The user loses access to the workspaces
immediately.
99.. To resend an invitation, select the invitation and click Resend. Resending an invitation applies the
original invitation settings.
Token API and Authorization Settings in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Marketing Cloud Intelligence uses unique tokens to identify users and grant access to API resources. A
user generates a token on the intelligence platform to be included in subsequent API calls. Account
admins can enable or disable the Token API generator for specific users.
A token is valid for 24 months from the time it’s generated. The generated token is the only copy of the
private key, and the user is responsible for storing it securely. When a user generates a new API token, the
previous token expires immediately.
The token doesn’t display authentication data. The approved client authentication method is a JSON
web token.
51

=== PAGE 56 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The process for creating and authorizing API tokens is as follows:
•
Step 1:Create an API Service Account
•
Step 2: Generate a JSON web Token
•
Step 3: Use the Access Token
Note API access via JWT is now available, and will be enforced starting in Dec 2023. Until then,
existing (old) tokens will still be supported.
Give Users API Access in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
An API token is required to perform actions via the Intelligence API. An admin must enable API access
for a user to generate a token.
Create an API Service Account in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can create an API service account from your profile if you have API access. The client ID and
private key are valid for 24 months.
Generate a JSON Web Token (JWT)
To obtain an access token, you need to generate a JWT with specific claims, and sign it using the
RS256 algorithm with your private key.
Use the Access Token
After you have obtained the access token from the token request response, you can use it to make
authenticated API calls to other endpoints.
Give Users API Access in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
An API token is required to perform actions via the Intelligence API. An admin must enable API access
for a user to generate a token.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To give users API access: Admin with Manage Users permissions
11.. To the right of the navigation bar, click the dropdown arrow and select Manage Users.
22.. Select the user, and click the pencil icon.
33.. Under Permissions, select the type of access allowed for this user.
••
Enable API Access—The user can access an external service account. When enabled, the license
model is enforced and validated. If you disable access, the Token API is automatically deactivated.
••
API Access Only—The user can’t generate a token. Only an account admin with the Manage Users
permission can generate the user’s external token.
Create an API Service Account in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can create an API service account from your profile if you have API access. The client ID and private
key are valid for 24 months.
52

=== PAGE 57 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API service account: User with Enable API Access
11.. To the right of the navigation bar, click the dropdown arrow, and click your name to access your profile
settings.
22.. To create an API service account, next to API Access Token, click Generate/Refresh.
The API service account’s details are download in a text file locally on your machine. Store this file
securely.
Note Generate/Refresh generates the new API service account details. It does not generate the
Access Token. The old string tokens are a separate entity and will remain supported until their
deprecation date.
The downloaded file looks like this:
53

=== PAGE 58 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The token provides this information:
••
serviceAccountId—Represents your client ID that you use to generate an access token.
••
privateKey—Your RSA private key you use to sign your private key JWT (JSON Web Token).
••
discoveryEndpoint—Use this URL to retrieve the access token generation endpoint and the issuer
address.
Generate a JSON Web Token (JWT)
To obtain an access token, you need to generate a JWT with specific claims, and sign it using the RS256
algorithm with your private key.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To generate an API token: User with Enable API Access
Step: 1 Get the token request endpoint URL
You first need to get the token request endpoint URL.
11.. Insert the discoveryEndpoint URL you obtained when generating the API token in Intelligence into
your browser’s search bar.
22.. Press Enter.
33.. Copy the returned value for the field “token_endpoint”.
Example for AWS US (aka US1):
Example
54

=== PAGE 59 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
"token_endpoint": "https://idp.intelligence.salesforce.com/us1/token"
Step 2: Sign the JWT
In order to sign the JWT, you must use the private key provided when generating the API Token in
Intelligence to encode the payload.
Using Python the necessary modules we need are:
import jwt
import requests
import uuid
import time
from cryptography.hazmat.primitives import serialization
from cryptography.hazmat.backends import default_backend
The Intelligence platform supports the JWT module - jwt 1.3.1
The JWT needs to be generated with specific claims and signed using the RS256 algorithm with your
private key.
JWT Claims (payload):
{
"iss": "your-client-id",
"aud": "https://idp.intelligence.salesforce.com"",
"sub": "your-client-id",
"iat": 1690129371, (time when the token was issued)
"jti": "45911cd010b846f9810b150c969b0007"
}
"iss" and "sub": Equivalent to the serviceAccountId
"iat": Epoch time in seconds.
"jti": a random UUID without "-".
Example of JWT
# env can be us1 / us2 / eu1 / eu2
app = 'us1'
service_account_id = ''
private_key_str = '''-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----\nMIIEogI....REDACTE
D.....xweWOhhutft/sA=\n-----END RSA PRIVATE
55

=== PAGE 60 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
KEY-----'''
private_key = serialization.load_pem_private_key(
private_key_str.encode(),
password=None,
backend=default_backend()
)
private_key_jwk = jwt.jwk_from_pem(private_key_str.encode())
payload = {
"iss": service_account_id,
"aud": "https://idp.intelligence.salesforce.com"",
"sub": service_account_id,
"iat": int(time.time()),
"jti": str(uuid.uuid4()).replace('-','')
}
jwt_object = jwt.JWT()
jwt_token = jwt_object.encode(payload, private_key_jwk, alg='RS256')
Step 3: Use the JWT to obtain a Platform Token
The Token Endpoint is available in the discoveryEndpoint URL obtained from your API client information.
Note The endpoint used in the example of AWS US instance may change.
"token_endpoint": "https://idp.intelligence.salesforce.com/us1/token""
Request Parameters
Parameter Type Description
client_id string Your client ID
(serviceAccountId).
client_assertion string Your JWT
client_assertion_type string The type of client assertion.
(Fixed value:
'urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-
assertion-type:jwt-bearer')
grant_type string The grant type. (Fixed value:
'client_credentials')
56

=== PAGE 61 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Request structure
[token_endpoint_obtained_from_the_beginning_of_Step_2]?grant_type=client_credentials&client_assertion=[your_signed_jwt_token]&client_id=[your_client_id]&client_assertion_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-
assertion-type:jwt-bearer
Example Response
{
"access_token": "eyJraWQ...",
"expires_in": 300
}
•
“access_token”—The issued access token you use to make API calls.
•
“expires_in”—The access token life time is 5 minutes (300 seconds).
Use the Access Token
After you have obtained the access token from the token request response, you can use it to make
authenticated API calls to other endpoints.
As an example, let's use the access token to make a POST request to get your user details:
POST https://app.datorama.com/services/admin/user/find/{user_id}
You should add an Authorization Header:
Authorization: Bearer [your access token]
Replace [your access token] with the actual access token obtained from the token request
response (field: “access_token”) .
Example Response:
Note This is just an example, and the actual endpoints and data for your specific use case may
differ.
Example
{
"id": 123,
"name": "John Doe",
"email": "john.doe@example.com"
...
}
57

=== PAGE 62 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Manage User Groups in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can create a user group to apply a set of content permissions and workspace user filters to users who
need access to specific accounts or workspaces. A user role determines what a user can and can’t do,
while a user group determines where the user can apply these permissions. You can assign a user to
more than one user group.
For example, you can create a user group for all users in the EMEA location and one for the marketing
team. And because a user can be assigned to multiple user groups, a marketeer in EMEA can be in both
the EMEA and marketing team user groups. This user receives all the content permissions and workspace
user filters available in either group, even if one group has fewer permissions.
You can create or or assign user groups when creating or editing a user.
Create a User Group
Create a user group to apply content permissions and workspace filters to a group of users who need
access to specific accounts or workspaces.
Create a User Group
Create a user group to apply content permissions and workspace filters to a group of users who need
access to specific accounts or workspaces.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a user group: Admin
11.. To the right of the navigation bar click the dropdown arrow and then click the account workspace
settings gear icon.
22.. From the account menu select User Groups and then click Create New.
33.. Name your user group.
Note User group names may not be more than 100 characters.
44.. Configure the content permissions.
aa.. To apply account and workspace permissions, click Manage Account & Workspaces and select the
accounts that you want the user group to access.
bb.. To enable access to specific workspaces, click the arrow next to the account and select the relevant
workspaces.
cc.. Save your selection.
dd.. To apply collection permissions, click Collection Permissions and set the permissions. For more
information, see Collection Permissions for User Groups.
ee.. To restrict access to particular measurements or dimensions, select Restrict, and then click Manage.
Note Each account has a limit to the number of available user roles. Select the required
58

=== PAGE 63 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
permissions.
ff.. Select the field you want to restrict and use the arrows to move them into the restricted column.
gg.. Save your selection.
55.. Apply workspace group filters. Filters restrict query results from displaying selected dimensions,
custom dimensions and custom measurements.
aa.. To filter out specific fields, select the workspace from the dropdown, and then click Add to select
the fields.
bb.. Save your selection.
cc.. To filter by a date range, select Time Period.
66.. To add a user to a group, search for the user by email in the Apply to Users section, and then use the
arrows to add or remove users. You can manage a user group only in the account that it was created in.
Also, users must be created in the same account to be added to a user group.
77.. Save the user group.
Collection Permissions for User Groups
You can apply collection permissions to a user group. If the group includes users with different user
roles, such as admins, power users, and viewers, the collection permissions don’t extend the individual
user role permissions.
Collection Permissions for User Groups
You can apply collection permissions to a user group. If the group includes users with different user roles,
such as admins, power users, and viewers, the collection permissions don’t extend the individual user
role permissions.
For example, if you give Edit permissions to a user group that includes viewers, those viewers can only
view the collection and not edit it. Similarly, if you set Restricted permission to a user group that includes
admins, they can still edit the collection.
User Role Collection Permissions for User Groups
Restricted View Edit
Admin Can View and Edit Can View and Edit Can View and Edit
collection collection collection
Power User Can’t access collection Can view collection Can edit collection
Viewer Can’t access collection Can view collection Can’t edit, but can view
collection
Set Collection Permissions for User Groups
Manage user group access to your collections.
59

=== PAGE 64 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Set Collection Permissions for User Groups
Manage user group access to your collections.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To set collection permissions Admin, and permissions to manage account users.
11.. To the right of the navigation bar, click the dropdown arrow and click the Account Settings gear icon.
22.. In the account menu click Users Groups.
33.. Select the user group and click Edit.
44.. Click Manage Collections.
55.. Select the collection. You can search for a collection by name. You can show or hide additional
columns from the table settings.
66.. Click Change Permissions.
77.. Select the permission to apply to the user group.
88.. On the Collection Permissions page, click Save, and then click Save again on the User Group page.
Change Your Marketing Cloud Intelligence Platform Language
You can change the default language for a user or just for the current session at login. This is done per
user at the account level.
User Permissions Needed
To change your platform language: Admin.
Power Users and Viewers can change the platform language from their Profile settings.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence supports the following languages:
•
English (default)
•
French
•
German
•
Japanese
•
Spanish
Note Some pages still appear only in English.
11.. To the right of the navigation bar, click the dropdown arrow, and select Manage Users.
22.. Select the user and click the pencil icon.
33.. In the General Info section, select the language from the dropdown.
44.. To change the language on the login page, click the dropdown on the right and select the language.
This changes the language for the current session only.
60

=== PAGE 65 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Note When you log in to Marketing Cloud Intelligence, if your browser recognizes that another
language is being used, a dialog appears asking you if you want to change to the recognized
language. After you choose an option, this dialog doesn’t appear again.
Switching Between Accounts in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Switching between accounts can be done through the account settings. This enables you to view another
account’s settings, account users, workspaces, data streams, and collections.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To switch between accounts Admin
You will only see the Switch Account option if you have access to more than one account.
11.. To the right of the navigation bar, click the dropdown arrow.
22.. Click Switch Accounts. Or, use the keyboard shortcut (Ctrl/ CMD + Shift + A)
33.. Search for the account you want to switch to. You can search by name, ID or workspace.
44.. To switch to a specific workspace within an account, click the drop down arrow next to the account
name, and select the workspace.
55.. Click Switch.
Account Deactivation in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Marketing Cloud Intelligence offers two types of customer accounts: Paying and POC. If an account
expires and no renewal contract has been issued, a deactivation process is automatically initiated.
Account deactivation follows this process and timeline:
Workspace Settings in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Each Marketing Cloud Intelligence account can have multiple workspaces. Each workspace has its own
data streams, dashboards, and reports. You typically use workspaces to separate clients, business units,
channel views, internal views, or role-based views—whatever best fits your needs.
Your work environment displays one workspace at a time. When changes are made, they are only applied
to the workspace you are working in. You can control your workspace settings from the workspace
settings tab, found in your profile. Each workspace is defined with a default maximum number of
allowed rows (50M). If you exceed this amount, an error message appears informing you that the
workspace cannot be created. To extend the default amount, contact your Marketing Cloud Intelligence
representative.
61

=== PAGE 66 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Workspace Analytics Report in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Workspace Analytics provides information about your workspace and helps you measure and improve
user engagement. The report is available at both the account and workspace level. The data in the
workspace report applies to the specific workspace. At the account level, you can view the data for all
the workspaces in the account.
Data Row Usage for Workspaces in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Data row usage is calculated as the sum of rows in Marketing Cloud Intelligence’s database for a
specific account or workspace. The row count is mainly affected by the lowest level entity in your data,
multiplied by the number of days for which there is measurement data.
Manage Your Workspace in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can monitor row usage, upload images, and change your workspace settings.
Add Custom Attributes to a Workspace in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Add custom attributes so that you can filter workspaces.
Restore Deleted Workspace Items in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
When you delete collections, pages, data streams, goals, templates, reports, pivot tables, calculated
dimensions, dimension hierarchies, calculated measurements, filtered measurements, transformation
rules, or highlighting rules, they are placed in the workspace bin. You can restore these items if
needed.
Archiving in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
If you have a lot of data that you no longer use but want to keep, you can archive it . You can pull up
archived data from previous time periods to use in reports.
Calendar Events in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can add an event when you want to track important occasions in your workspace. For example, if
you want to monitor spikes in sales around holidays or special sale events, you can add a calendar
reminder.
Add an Exchange Rate at the Workspace Level
If you are setting an exchange rate at the workspace level, then you have the option to inherit the
account level exchange rates by checking the Inherit account rates checkbox. If the inherit account
rates checkbox is checked you can’t add new currency exchange rates on the workspace level.
Workspace Date Formatting
You can configure how to display dates across your workspaces.
Report Date Formats
You can configure the date format for a report.
Workspace and Report Date Formats
Use these formats to determine how your dates appear in your workspace and reports.
Date Ranges in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use a date range to display specific data. You can set a date range for a pivot table, report, and
dashboard. You can select a predefined date range from the date picker, such as Last 30 days or This
Month, or you can enter a range. When you set a date range, your data updates according to the dates
selected.
Custom Date Range in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can define your own date range categories using formulas or functions. You can use your custom
62

=== PAGE 67 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
date ranges anywhere a date can be selected in the workspace, such as reports, pivot tables, and
widgets.
Workspace Integrations in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Workspace integrations bring together multiple systems allowing them to work collaboratively with
Marketing Cloud Intelligence. For example with the Slack integration you can share and export
dashboard pages and widgets directly into Slack.
Executive Workspaces in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
An executive workspace incorporates data from other workspaces, so you view and analyze data as if
it’s one data pool. Executive workspaces can also function as a regular workspace allowing you to
create data streams, and analyze data by creating rules, goals, calculated dimensions, and
measurements.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Sandbox Testing Environment
You can use the Marketing Cloud Intelligence sandbox to test setup configurations and explore how
new, modified, or deleted entities could impact and change live data before implementing them to
production. Sandbox is enabled at the account level, so all workspaces under the account have access
to the sandbox environment.
Workspace Analytics Report in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Workspace Analytics provides information about your workspace and helps you measure and improve
user engagement. The report is available at both the account and workspace level. The data in the
workspace report applies to the specific workspace. At the account level, you can view the data for all the
workspaces in the account.
See Also
Account Analytics in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Data Row Usage for Workspaces in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Data row usage is calculated as the sum of rows in Marketing Cloud Intelligence’s database for a specific
account or workspace. The row count is mainly affected by the lowest level entity in your data, multiplied
by the number of days for which there is measurement data.
An account can store a set number of rows in the Marketing Cloud Intelligence database. You can divide
the number of rows between the workspaces in the account. At the workspace level, you can view its row
usage and the number of rows distributed between the different data streams.
See Also
Data Row Usage in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Manage Your Workspace in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can monitor row usage, upload images, and change your workspace settings.
63

=== PAGE 68 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To manage your workspace Admin
11.. On the left side of the navigation bar, click your workspace name.
Note Some actions are available only for admins.
22.. To upload an image, hover over your workspace image (1), click the pencil icon and then click Browse
to replace. By default, the image appears as a thumbnail instead of the workspace name at the top left
of the navigation bar and as a thumbnail when switching a workspace. You can change this setting
when changing the workspace image.
33.. To edit your workspace settings, click the gear icon (2).
44.. You can see the number of rows your workspace uses in the Row Usage graph (3). Hover over the
graph to see when the row usage was last refreshed. This value is refreshed every 60 minutes. To see
more information click Row Usage.
55.. To see your workspace analytics, click Analytics (4).
66.. To switch to another workspace for which you have permissions for, search for a workspace by name
or ID, or click a workspace tile (5).
77.. To view and manage all the workspaces in your account that you have permissions for, click Manage
Workspaces (6)
88.. To add a workspace to your favorites to easily find it, click the star icon (7) . Click again to remove the
workspace from your favorites
64

=== PAGE 69 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Sharing Entities Between Workspaces in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can share common entities across workspaces and accounts. When the original entity is modified,
you can opt to push the changes to all the workspaces that share the item. You can change only the
original item, but you can de-link a shared item and then change it. You can also import new entities
without updating existing shared items.
Sharing Entities Between Workspaces in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can share common entities across workspaces and accounts. When the original entity is modified,
you can opt to push the changes to all the workspaces that share the item. You can change only the
original item, but you can de-link a shared item and then change it. You can also import new entities
without updating existing shared items.
Share Entities Between Workspaces in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Share common entities across workspaces and accounts.
Share Entities Between Workspaces in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Share common entities across workspaces and accounts.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To share entities between workspaces Admin
11.. On the left side of the navigation bar, click your workspace name.
22.. Click the workspace settings gear icon.
33.. In the left panel, select General.
44.. To import another workspace’s items:
aa.. Click Import Workspace Settings.
bb.. Select the workspace you want to import from.
cc.. Select the entities that you want to import, and click Import..
55.. To update a workspace’s shared entities:
aa.. Click Push Workspace Updates.
bb.. Select the items you want to push, and click Next.
cc.. Select the workspaces you want to update.
dd.. Click Push Updates.
66.. To de-link an entity from the original, select the entity and click De-link.
Add Custom Attributes to a Workspace in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Add custom attributes so that you can filter workspaces.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To add custom attributes to a workspace Admin
65

=== PAGE 70 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
11.. On the left side of the navigation bar, click the workspace name.
22.. Click the workspace settings gear icon.
33.. In the left panel under General, scroll down to workspace custom attributes.
44.. Type in the dimension value for the workspace and click Save. The new name is displayed under
workspace custom attributes and applies to only that workspace.
55.. To change the custom attributes for a specific workspace, on the Connect & Mix tab, select
Dimensions.
Restore Deleted Workspace Items in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
When you delete collections, pages, data streams, goals, templates, reports, pivot tables, calculated
dimensions, dimension hierarchies, calculated measurements, filtered measurements, transformation
rules, or highlighting rules, they are placed in the workspace bin. You can restore these items if needed.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To restore deleted workspace items Admin
When you restore a collection, all items below it, such as dashboard pages and widgets, are also
restored. When you restore a dashboard page, the collections and all their content are also restored if
deleted.
Note Only data streams can be permanently deleted from the workspace bin . All other entities
can’t be removed.
11.. On the left side of the navigation bar, click the workspace name.
22.. Click the workspace settings gear icon.
33.. In the left panel, expand Workspace Tools and then click Bin.
44.. Select the items you want to restore, set the date range, and then click Restore.
Archiving in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
If you have a lot of data that you no longer use but want to keep, you can archive it . You can pull up
archived data from previous time periods to use in reports.
Note The archiving feature is a premium feature available for purchase.
Archiving is based on a time window in which data is available to the user (called hot data). Data prior to
the time window (called cold data) is archived and isn’t available in queries. For example, if you set a
time window of 730 days, data from over two years ago is archived.
Note Archived rows are calculated separately from regular rows (hot rows) and don’t affect the hot
row limit.
66

=== PAGE 71 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
How Does Archiving Affect Data?
With the exception of reports, archived data isn’t available in queries on the platform or through the
Marketing Cloud Intelligence API.
Updating archived data via data streams is available for a limited number of uploads per day. Updating
occurs automatically when the data stream contains the relevant dates. When the workspace exceeds
the number of uploads allowed, it stops updating it until the next day.
The archiving window looks for the actual date range, not the processing date range. Therefore, you can’t
include additional filters. Dates above the time window are disabled. For example, if your archiving
window is defined as 365 days, and today’s date is 1/1/2020, you can’t choose dates before 1/1/2019.
When your archived data reaches the limit for the workspace, the data streams that are trying to update
archived data fail. Data streams that are updating hot data work as expected.
Include Archived Data in a Report
If you’re an Admin, you can run reports to retrieve archived data.
Include Archived Data in a Report
If you’re an Admin, you can run reports to retrieve archived data.
Note The archiving feature is a premium feature available for purchase.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To edit account settings Admin
You can create reports that query archived data, but they’re limited to a certain number of queries per
day. (A query is equivalent to one sheet in reports). Make sure that reports can query archived data.
Select Include Archived Data in Report when setting up the report.
11.. On the Analyze & Act tab, select Reports.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Create a report.
44.. Expand Configuration, and select Include Archived Data in Report.
Each report sheet processed is counted against the daily limit of reports containing archived data.
Calendar Events in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can add an event when you want to track important occasions in your workspace. For example, if
you want to monitor spikes in sales around holidays or special sale events, you can add a calendar
reminder.
Create an Event in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
67

=== PAGE 72 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create an event to track important occasions in your workspace.
Add an Event to a Widget in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
After you create an event in your workspace, you can add it to a widget so you can visualize the data.
Create an Event in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create an event to track important occasions in your workspace.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create an event Admin
11.. To the left of the navigation bar, click your workspace name and then click the workspace settings gear
icon.
22.. In the workspace menu click Consumption, scroll down to Calendar Events and click Manage.
33.. To add an event click Add New.
44.. Select the event’s date range.
55.. Select a tag from the dropdown, or click Add New to create a new tag.
66.. Save your settings.
77.. To view your existing or added events, click Manage under Calendar Events.
You can now apply the event to widgets with date dimensions to help visualize the data.
Add an Event to a Widget in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
After you create an event in your workspace, you can add it to a widget so you can visualize the data.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To add an event to a widget Admin and Power User
The following widgets have date ranges and are therefore suitable for events:
•
Bar graph
•
Line chart
•
Time comparison bar graph
•
Calendar
11.. On the Visualize tab, click a page and click the pencil icon to enter edit mode.
22.. On the Design tab, click Interactions.
33.. Select Calendar Events.
44.. Select the event you want to add.
A bookmark icon for the event appears in the widget.
68

=== PAGE 73 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Add an Exchange Rate at the Workspace Level
If you are setting an exchange rate at the workspace level, then you have the option to inherit the
account level exchange rates by checking the Inherit account rates checkbox. If the inherit account rates
checkbox is checked you can’t add new currency exchange rates on the workspace level.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To edit account settings Admin
To create a new exchange rate at the workspace level complete these steps:
11.. To the left of the navigation bar click your workspace name and then click the workspace setting gear
icon.
22.. In the workspace, menu select Exchange Rates.
33.. Make sure that Inherit account rates isn’t selected. If this option is selected, you can’t add a currency
exchange rate at the workspace level because it uses the exchange rate set at the account level.
44.. To add an exchange rate, click the plus (+) icon and enter this information:
aa.. Select the date range to use. The date range is the timespan specifying the currency conversion.
bb.. Enter the value of the currency rate in relation to U.S. dollars.
cc.. Select the currency from the dropdown.
dd.. Click Create. The currency rate is added to your currency table.
Note For the data to reflect the changes you are applying, rerun the relevant data streams.
Workspace Date Formatting
You can configure how to display dates across your workspaces.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To set the date format on the workspace level Admin
11.. Click the workspace name on the left of the navigation bar, and then click the workspace settings gear
icon.
22.. From workspace settings menu click Time & Location.
33.. Select the date format from the Date Formats dropdown and click Save.
Report Date Formats
You can configure the date format for a report.
69

=== PAGE 74 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To set the date format for reports Admin
11.. On the Analyze & Act tab, click Reports.
22.. Select the report that you want to configure, and click Edit.
33.. In the Configuration section, select the date dimensions that you want to configure in the Dimension
field.
44.. Click Customize and in the Display Format column, set the format. For example, enter MMMM to
display the full name of the month.
55.. Click Apply and save your report.
Workspace and Report Date Formats
Use these formats to determine how your dates appear in your workspace and reports.
70

=== PAGE 75 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Format Output
YYYY 2022
yy 22
MMM Jul
MMMM July
MM 07
WW Week 37
ww 37
dd 01 (day in the month)
DD 245 (day in the year)
ddd Tue (name of a day in the week)
QQ Q1 (quarter number)
QQQ JFM (first letter of the three months of the quarter,
for example, January, February, March)
Date Ranges in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use a date range to display specific data. You can set a date range for a pivot table, report, and
dashboard. You can select a predefined date range from the date picker, such as Last 30 days or This
Month, or you can enter a range. When you set a date range, your data updates according to the dates
selected.
When setting a date range, the following rules apply.
•
When the date range is a calendar segment (day, week, or month), Marketing Cloud Intelligence uses
the beginning of the calendar period and doesn’t count the days back from the current date. For
example, if you select Previous Week in the date picker, it isn’t counted as today minus seven days.
Instead, it goes to the week previous to the current week and starts the range on the first date that the
previous week started from.
•
The first day of the week is Monday, so Sunday is considered part of the previous week. You can
change this preference using the Custom Calendar feature.
This table lists the Marketing Cloud Intelligence date range options.
Date Range Description
Ongoing The data is relevant from the selected start date to the present day
(data is valid to yesterday).
71

=== PAGE 76 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Date Range Description
Yesterday Refers to the day before today.
Week to date
From the beginning of the current week to the current day.
Bi-week to Date Includes information from the beginning of the calendar bi-week.
Bi-week divides the entire year into two-week periods. This refers to
a specific two weeks, depending on the count from the beginning
of the year.
Month to date Includes information from the beginning of the calendar month.
For example, if you set this date range to April 15, it pulls data from
the beginning of April and shows 15 days worth of data.
Quarter to date From the beginning of the current quarter to the current day.
Year to date From the beginning of the year to the current day.
Previous Week Refers to the week before the current week.
Previous Bi-Week The previous bi-week to date. Bi-week divides the entire year into
two-week periods, starting from the beginning of the year.
Previous Month The entire month before the current month.
Previous Quarter The entire quarter before the current quarter.
Previous Year The entire year before the current year.
Last 7 Days The past 7 days, not including today.
Last 14 Days The past 14 days, not including today.
Last 30 Days The past 30 days, not including today.
Last 90 Days The past 90 days, not including today.
This Week The week in which the current date is in.
This Bi-week
The bi-week in which the current date falls in.
Bi-week divides the entire year into two-week periods, starting from
the beginning of the year.
This Month The month in which the current date is in.
This Quarter The quarter in which the current date is in.
This Year The year in which the current date is in.
72

=== PAGE 77 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Date Range Description
Custom Date Range The custom date range allows you to select any range of dates you
would like and save them to show up across the workspace. This
option is commonly used when you want to show a specific date
range in your reports. For example “Last 45 days”.
Saved custom date ranges show up at the bottom of your list in the
Date Menu dropdown.
Custom Date Range in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can define your own date range categories using formulas or functions. You can use your custom
date ranges anywhere a date can be selected in the workspace, such as reports, pivot tables, and
widgets.
Create a Custom Date Range in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a custom date range based on your needs.
Create a Custom Date Range in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a custom date range based on your needs.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a custom date range: Admin or Power User
For example, you can create a date range called Last 3 Weeks that begins 3 weeks ago from today and
ends today.
11.. To the left of the navigation bar, click the workspace name and then click the workspace settings gear
icon.
22.. Expand the workspace settings menu, and select Custom Date Ranges.
33.. Click Add New.
44.. Name the custom date range.
55.. For the Start Date and End Date fields, double-click a function or formula on either the Functions or
Data Ranges tab to create the date range.
66.. Save your custom date range.
77.. When you enter your custom formula, the date is calculated automatically. Calculated dates are
relative to the workspace time zone.
When you enter your custom formula, the date is calculated automatically. Calculated dates are relative
to the workspace time zone.
73

=== PAGE 78 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To see examples for custom date ranges click the link below
https://datorama-graphics-freshdesk.s3.amazonaws.com/
Custom%20Date%20Ranges%20Common%20Use%20Cases%20%281%29.pdf
Workspace Integrations in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Workspace integrations bring together multiple systems allowing them to work collaboratively with
Marketing Cloud Intelligence. For example with the Slack integration you can share and export
dashboard pages and widgets directly into Slack.
Intelligence Insights for Slack Integration
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Insights for Slack provides seamless collaboration with colleagues and
clients allowing marketing teams to work together and communicate on campaigns and improve
cross-functional work.
Intelligence Insights for Slack Integration
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Insights for Slack provides seamless collaboration with colleagues and
clients allowing marketing teams to work together and communicate on campaigns and improve cross-
functional work.
With Marketing Cloud Intelligence Insights for Slack, marketing teams, colleagues and clients can work
together and communicate on campaigns to improve cross-functional work.
To share and send alerts with Marketing Cloud Intelligence Insights for Slack, configure a workspace
settings integration at the workspace or collection level. Your permissioned users can then sent alerts
and share dashboard pages and widgets to Slack.
To integrate Marketing Cloud Intelligence Insights for Slack, install an incoming webhook app. Then use
a single webhook to share charts to any public Slack channel. You can predefine a list of channels and
associate a webhook to each, and you can configure public and private channels.
Here’s a video about Marketing Cloud Intelligence Insights for Slack:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/hWix1EeQn3cVVRzeRUf9Qd
And here’s another video about configuring your Slack integration:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/CNkqcvqhSVnDqs9cjquiK8
Create a Slack Integration for Workspaces in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Configure Marketing Cloud Intelligence Insights for Slack to share dashboard pages and widgets. After
the integration is set up, users with permissions and access to the workspace can share dashboard
pages and widgets in Slack.
Create Slack Integration for Collections in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Configure Marketing Cloud Intelligence Insights for Slack to share dashboard pages and widgets. After
74

=== PAGE 79 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
the integration is set up, users with permissions and access to the collection can share dashboard
pages and widgets in Slack.
Create a Slack Integration for Workspaces in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Configure Marketing Cloud Intelligence Insights for Slack to share dashboard pages and widgets. After
the integration is set up, users with permissions and access to the workspace can share dashboard pages
and widgets in Slack.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create workspace integrations: Admin
11.. Click your workspace name, and then the workspace settings gear icon.
22.. On the workspace menu, click Integrations.
33.. Make sure that Slack is turned on.
44.. Select Workspace level.
55.. Name your integration.
66.. Select the webhook type
Single webhook One webhook for all channels.
Webhook per channel Select the channels that your users can send to
77.. Insert your webhook.
88.. Set your sharing permissions. By default, sharing permissions are set to All users.
99.. Select the Enable predefined sender name and icon checkbox to allow users to send messages from
a predefined display name. Add a display name and a logo. For example, add your name and logo so
that users can share it.
1100.. Click Save.
Create Slack Integration for Collections in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Configure Marketing Cloud Intelligence Insights for Slack to share dashboard pages and widgets. After
the integration is set up, users with permissions and access to the collection can share dashboard pages
and widgets in Slack.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create workspace integrations: Admin
11.. Click your workspace name, and then the workspace settings gear icon.
22.. On the workspace menu click Integrations.
75

=== PAGE 80 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
33.. Make sure that Slack is turned on.
44.. Select Collection level.
55.. Name your Integration.
66.. Select a collection from the dropdown. After you add a collection integration, that collection is
unavailable and can’t be selected.
77.. Select the webhook type:
Single webhook One webhook for all channels.
Webhook per channel Select the channels that your users can send to
88.. Insert the webhook.
99.. Add the channel name.
1100.. Set sharing permissions. By default, sharing permissions are set to All users.
1111.. Save your integration.
To create a webhook for your integration, see Slack incoming webhook.
Here’s a video about configuring your Slack integration:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/CNkqcvqhSVnDqs9cjquiK8
Executive Workspaces in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
An executive workspace incorporates data from other workspaces, so you view and analyze data as if it’s
one data pool. Executive workspaces can also function as a regular workspace allowing you to create
data streams, and analyze data by creating rules, goals, calculated dimensions, and measurements.
Note Executive workspace is a premium feature. If you’re interested in purchasing contact a
Marketing Cloud Intelligence representative.
You can upgrade a workspace to an executive workspace when purchasing a Marketing Cloud
Intelligence license. For example, if you purchase two workspace licenses and you want an executive
workspace license as well, then you must purchase an additional license for the executive workspace.
When using an executive workspace, make sure the custom attributes, measurements, and dimensions
are mapped and constructed with similar logic and consistency. For example, if custom classification 1 is
defined differently under different workspaces, you can’t slice the data from these workspaces using the
custom classification 1 dimension.
Note Calculated dimensions and measurements aren’t inherited from workspaces. If you want to
use them in an executive workspace you have to either recreate them or push them.
Executive workspaces act as a separate unit. Data streams don’t appear under the executive workspace's
Data Streams tab, and changes made in the executive workspace don’t apply to the included
workspaces. For example, if you change a dimension or measurement display name in the executive
76

=== PAGE 81 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
workspace, the change isn’t applied to the included workspaces. Furthermore, events added in the
included workspaces don’t appear in the executive workspace as well.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Sandbox Testing Environment
You can use the Marketing Cloud Intelligence sandbox to test setup configurations and explore how new,
modified, or deleted entities could impact and change live data before implementing them to
production. Sandbox is enabled at the account level, so all workspaces under the account have access to
the sandbox environment.
Note Sandboxes are for testing and development use only, and not for production use.
After testing in sandbox, you can deploy the sandbox environment to production. Sandbox supports the
following entities:
•
Data streams
•
Generic data stream types
•
Dashboards
•
Reports
•
Pivot tables
•
Calculated dimensions
•
Calculated measurements
•
Data fusions
•
Classification Rules
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Sandbox Use Cases
Consider these common use cases when working in sandbox mode.
Sandbox Mode in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
After enabling sandbox, the sandbox icon is available in the top right.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Sandbox Use Cases
Consider these common use cases when working in sandbox mode.
•
Adding an entity that doesn’t yet exist in production.
- The created entity only appears in sandbox.
- When deployed to production, the entity loses its sandbox status and becomes a production entity.
- The new production entity is now accessible in both sandbox and production modes, like any other
production entity.
•
Modifying an existing production entity.
- A copy of the entity is created in sandbox.
- Only the copied version is accessible in sandbox while only the original is accessible in production.
- When the modified version is deployed to production, it replaces the existing entity in production.
- The updated entity is now accessible in both sandbox and production modes, like any other
production entity.
77

=== PAGE 82 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Removing an existing production entity.
- When you remove an existing entity in sandbox, it no longer impacts anything in sandbox. The
entity is still visible as a deleted entity in case you want to reinstate it.
- When sandbox is deployed to production, the entity is deleted from both sandbox and production.
Sandbox Mode in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
After enabling sandbox, the sandbox icon is available in the top right.
When you’re in sandbox mode, the screen has a purple background so that you can easily distinguish
between your production and sandbox environments.
Note Only Power Users and Admins can access sandbox.
Each entity that has been created, edited, or deleted in sandbox mode is marked with a purple triangle
(1).
Click Show Only Sandbox Entities (2) to see only sandbox entities in your list.
Click Show Deployment History (3) to see the history of the entities deployed from sandbox to
production.
The Sandbox Management Center (4) shows all your sandbox entities in one location.
You can revert changes (5) you made in sandbox mode.
Click Deploy All (6) to push all changes you made in sandbox mode to production.
Manage Sandbox Entities in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Because sandbox is shared at the workspace level, all admins have access to the same sandbox mode.
However, you can choose to let users see only the sandbox entities that they created.
Deploy or Revert Actions in Sandbox Mode in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
In sandbox mode you can deploy or revert changes.
Resolve Dependencies in the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Sandbox
Sometimes an entity is dependent on another entity. For example, if you create a calculated
measurement in sandbox that is based on another calculated measurement also created in sandbox,
the first measurement is dependent on the second to work correctly.
View Deployment History in the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Sandbox
All your deployment activity is logged and can be viewed in the Sandbox Deployment History dialog.
78

=== PAGE 83 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Get Started with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Manage Sandbox Entities in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Because sandbox is shared at the workspace level, all admins have access to the same sandbox mode.
However, you can choose to let users see only the sandbox entities that they created.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To manage sandbox entities Admin or Power User
11.. Go to Sandbox Mode.
22.. Click the bulleted list icon in the menu bar to access the Sandbox Management Center.
33.. To track changes made to a specific entity, hover over the entity and when the arrow appears, click
More Details.
Deploy or Revert Actions in Sandbox Mode in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
In sandbox mode you can deploy or revert changes.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To deploy or revert changes in sandbox entities Admin
11.. Go to Sandbox Mode.
22.. Make changes in your workspace. For example, delete a report.
33.. Click the bulleted list icon in the menu bar to access the Sandbox Management Center.
44.. To deploy the action to production mode, select the entity and click Deploy.
55.. To revert the action, select the entity and click Revert.
The following happens when reverting:
If an entity was added, revert removes the entity.
If an entity was edited, revert cancels the editing changes and brings the entity back to its original
settings.
If an entity was deleted, revert cancels the deletion, and the entity returns to sandbox.
Note To deploy a Classification data stream or any classification rule’s underlying entities, you
must deploy the related classification rule.
Resolve Dependencies in the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Sandbox
Sometimes an entity is dependent on another entity. For example, if you create a calculated
measurement in sandbox that is based on another calculated measurement also created in sandbox, the
first measurement is dependent on the second to work correctly.
79

=== PAGE 84 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To manage sandbox dependencies Admin
11.. Go to Sandbox Mode.
22.. Create a calculated measurement.
33.. Click Deploy.
If there is a dependency, a message informs you of the dependency and that the second measurement
will be added to your deployment automatically. You can either remove the measurements from the
deployment action or cancel the entire deployment.
View Deployment History in the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Sandbox
All your deployment activity is logged and can be viewed in the Sandbox Deployment History dialog.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To view deployment history Admin or Power User
11.. Go to Sandbox Mode.
22.. Click the clock icon to access the Sandbox Deployment History.
Note If no entities were deployed, this icon is disabled
33.. To get more information about an item, click More Details.
Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Marketing Cloud Intelligence pulls data from a variety of sources with different data types. Each one of
these different data types has its own unique combination of dimensions and measurements. The
dimensions are made up of entities that have a certain relationship, or hierarchy, between them. It’s
important to maintain this relationship in Marketing Cloud Intelligence’s database, otherwise the data
can get aggregated incorrectly.
For this reason, for each of the different data types, Marketing Cloud Intelligence has emulated the
unique relationship, which exists between these entities. This means that the corresponding Marketing
Cloud Intelligence entities within its database follow the same relationship. Modeling the data by these
relationships for the various data types is what’s collectively known as the Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Data Model.
The legend used by the diagrams that follow:
80

=== PAGE 85 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
There are two possible relationship types between entities – one-to-many and many-to-many:
One to Many – For example, the connection between Site and Media Buy. One Site can be linked to
many Media Buys, however, one Media Buy can be linked to one Site only.
Many to Many – For example, the connection between Media Buy and Creative. One Media Buy can be
linked to many Creatives and vice versa, and one Creative can be linked to many Media Buys.
The Main Entity in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model considers one of the entities from each data type to be the
main entity. The main entity is the entity around which everything else revolves or is associated with
within a given data type. In the data stream type diagrams below, all main entities appear in a circle. For
example in the Ads data stream type, Media Buy is the main entity.
The different main entities are:
Overarching Entities in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Overarching entities exist in all data stream types and allow you to link different data streams by these
entities. This enables slicing different data types by one (or more) overarching entity. For example,
delivery and social data can both be sliced by the overarching entity ‘Product’ (as seen in the following
image):
In the overarching entities in the following diagram, the entities on the-right hand side are in fact
'Attributes' of the main entity. They are in a one-to-many relationship with the main entity, so they can
each only hold one value for each main entity value. For example, in the ‘Ads Data Stream Type’,
'Product' is an attribute of 'Media Buy' meaning that there can only be one 'Product' value for each
'Media Buy' value. The entities on the left-hand side are in a many-to-many relationship with the main
entity and as such, they can each hold multiple values for each main entity value. So for example, in the
‘Ads Data Stream Type’, there can be multiple 'Device Category' values for 'Media Buy' value.
Note that Channel isn’t a mappable entity.
81

=== PAGE 86 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Data Stream Custom Attributes in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Data Stream Custom Attributes behave like Attributes to the Data Stream Entity. Data Stream Custom
Attributes are updated with a slight delay, so they might not appear in your workspace data immediately
after being added.
Cross-Connectivity Between Data Stream Types in Marketing Cloud
Intelligence
A relationship between entities doesn’t have to be via a direct link but can also be through a ‘third party’
Entity. For example, Campaign and Site aren’t linked directly one to another. However, since each one of
them is linked to Media Buy in a one-to-many relationship, the relationship between Campaign and Site
is many-to-many indirectly.
Data Stream Types in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The following diagrams show which entities are included in each data stream type. Not all entities must
be mapped in each data stream, however it’s advised that you always map the main entity. The main
entity appears in a circle so you can distinguish it from the other entities. Entities that aren’t mapped by
the user are given a default value by the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform. For example, in the
following widget (representing one data stream) the ‘Media Buy Entity’ is mapped, but the ‘Campaign
Entity’ isn’t, hence the ‘Campaign Entity’ gets a default value.
Note If the existing Data Stream types don’t match your data use case, you can use the Generic
Data Stream Type.
In the Data Models below, the largest circle highlights the Main Entity.
The main entity is determined per data stream type. For example, ‘Media Buy’ is the main entity in the
‘Ads Data Stream Type’, but it isn’t the main entity in the ‘Conversions Data Stream Type’. In the data
models that follow, the largest circle highlights the main entity. You can see that some data stream types
include entities from other data stream types. For example, in the data model for the ‘Conversions Data
Stream Type’, you can see entities from the ‘Ads Data Stream Type’.
The types of data streams are:
•
Ads
•
Ads Verification Blocking
•
Buy Data
•
Buy Data Conversions
•
CRM Leads
82

=== PAGE 87 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Competitive
•
Conversion Tag
•
Conversion Tag with Keywords
•
Ecommerce
•
Messaging
•
Products
•
Search Keywords
•
Social Element Traffic Source
•
Social Listening
•
Social Objects
•
Web Analytics
•
Web Analytics Events
•
Web Analytics Pages
•
Web Analytics Tags
•
Generic Data Stream Type
Ads
In the world of digital marketing, the ads data stream type is where you can find the data for your display
ads campaigns. This data stream type contains the delivery data that comes from these campaigns. For
example, how many times an ad has been seen, clicked or how much money it cost. The ads data stream
type can be used with providers, such as Facebook Ads, Google Ads, Twitter Ads, Bing Ads and more.
Ads Verification Blocking
The ads verification blocking data stream type tracks data where ads were blocked by ad verification
platforms, and therefore weren’t served. This usually pertains to ads that were blocked due to a violation
of the platform’s terms and conditions and either disrupted user experience or violated brand safety. You
can use this data stream type with providers, such as IAS, and Double Verify.
Buy Data
The ‘buy data’ data stream type is intended for ingesting data relating to planned advertising activity,
sometimes referred to as ‘planned data’ or a ‘media plan’. Used in Media Transparency Center
implementations, it facilitates the bulk creation of Insertion Orders (or IOs for short), which themselves
represent the scope and details of the said activity, with information such as the IO start and end dates,
IO cost type, IO rate and IO budget. It’s also used to create an association between IOs and their related
delivery data, thereby unifying planned with actuals. This data stream type can be used to ingest media
plans from systems, such as Salesforce, Mediaocean, Nexelus, and Netsuite.
83

=== PAGE 88 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Buy Data Conversions
Buy data (ingested using the ‘buy data’ data stream type) can contain IOs that are associated with
conversion tags. However, not all conversion tags associated with a certain delivery item under an IO, are
necessarily relevant for that IO’s cost calculations. The buy data conversions data stream type allows you
to associate between existing IOs and the conversion tags of relevance. In a sense, this data stream type
can be thought of as a ‘conversion tag filter’ for IOs, and is only used as an add-on to an existing use of
the ‘buy data’ data stream type.
CRM Leads
The CRM leads data stream type is intended for ingesting data relating to the potential prospects of a
business, commonly known as ‘Leads’. Designed to keep a historical record of each lead’s evolution over
time, this data stream type is equipped with slowly changing type 2 dimensions, such as lead stage, lead
status and lead modified date. The CRM leads data stream type can be used to ingest data from lead
generation platforms, such as Marketing Cloud Account Engagement (Pardot), Hubspot Marketing and
Intercom, as well as from CRM platforms, such as Salesforce, Sugar CRM, and CRM Creatio.
Competitive
The competitive data stream type, which is used side by side with the social objects data stream type,
allows you to compare yourself to your competitor by displaying various social metrics side by side from
the two data stream types. The purpose of this data stream type is to allow you to view your competitors'
data separately from your own data. This data stream type is suitable for any social media platforms,
such as Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and YouTube.
Conversion Tag
The conversion tag data stream type is intended for ingesting data related to the various 'calls to action'
tied to your campaigns, also known as conversions. You can see what particular conversion tag prompted
your audience to complete a call to action, and whether this happened after they viewed your ad or after
they clicked it. This data stream type also includes data related to the monetary aspects of your
conversions for example, how much a conversion cost or how much revenue it brought in. This data
stream type can be used with providers, such as Facebook Ads, Google Ads, Google Display&Video 360,
Twitter Ads, and more.
84

=== PAGE 89 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Conversion Tag with Keywords
Whenever an ad is displayed in a search engine result and drives a conversion, the search keywords that
led to this conversion are attributed to it. In these cases, the conversion tag with keywords data stream
type is used to ingest the conversion data along with the respective search keywords related to it. The
conversion tag with keywords data stream type is suitable for providers, such as Google Ads, Search Ads
360, and Bing Ads.
ecommerce
In the world of ecommerce, the ecommerce data stream type is where you can find different levels of
data for product catalogs, placed orders, number of purchased items within each order, and more. This
data stream type is intended for ingesting different data types, in their various forms, from ecommerce
platforms. The ecommerce data stream type can be used with providers, such as Salesforce OMS,
Amazon Seller Central, and Amazon Vendor Central.
For details on the ecommerce data stream type, see: Ecommerce Data Stream Type
Messaging
The messaging data stream type is intended for ingesting email marketing and mobile phone marketing,
as well as user journey data, which is available on some of the more advanced messaging platforms. A
message can be in the form of an email, a text message, or an app notification, and is typically
associated with measurements, such as how many people received, opened, clicked on a message, etc.
This data stream type can be used to ingest data from platforms, such as Salesforce Marketing Cloud,
Marketo, and Adobe.
Products
The products data stream type is intended for ingesting data from the commerce world. This data
generally includes entities such as products, and clients, as well as metrics, like unit purchases and cost.
The products data stream type can report on off-line purchases and ecommerce transactions, and then
tie them back to the marketing data to create a more wholesome picture of your data.
85

=== PAGE 90 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Search Keywords
The search keywords data stream type is intended for ingesting data related to ads displayed in search-
engine results whenever someone searches for the services or products using keywords offered by the
advertiser. The data is associated with campaigns and is measured by impressions, clicks, and media
cost, and other fields that make up its data set. This type of advertising has managed to acquire
numerous names, such as Search Advertising, Paid Search, Search Engine Marketing, Pay Per Click
Marketing and more. The Search Keywords data stream type is suitable for providers such as Google Ads,
Search Ads 360, and Bing Ads.
Social Element Traffic Source
The social element traffic source data stream type extends the social objects data stream type to include
traffic sources for organic social content. This allows you to identify where a user came from before
landing on a specific post or video. For example, a user can access a YouTube video via a direct link, or by
browsing a certain YouTube channel or playlist. This data stream type can be used for YouTube.
Social Listening
The social listening data stream type is used to monitor social media channels for mentions of your
brands, competitors, products, and so on. Social listening is used to track, analyze, and respond to
conversations on social media regarding your brand or product. The social listening data stream type is
suitable for platforms such as: Salesforce Social Studio, Sprinklr, and more.
Social Objects
The social objects data stream type is where you can find the organic social data that is being tracked on
various social networks and platforms. This type of data is related to the organic social activity on your
pages and posts, such as number of fans, engagement, organic reach and more. The social objects data
stream type is relevant for providers, such as Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, YouTube, Pinterest, and more.
Web Analytics
The web analytics data stream type is intended for ingesting data related to the traffic in your web pages.
This data stream type can help you analyze and assess the effectiveness of your website, based on how
many visits it gets, how much time people spend on each web page, or how many website transactions
are combined into a complete process. The web analytics data stream type can be used with providers,
such as Google Analytics, Adobe Analytics, and more.
86

=== PAGE 91 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Web Analytics Events
The web analytics event data stream type is used to analyze events, such as user interactions on a
website. An interaction can be specified according to the needs of the user. For example, a user can
decide to track the event, such as all clicks on “Add to cart”. The web analytics events data stream type is
suitable for any web analytics platform, such as Google Analytics, and Adobe Analytics.
Web Analytics Pages
The web analytics pages data stream type is used to track and monitor all data pertaining to the analytics
of your website, including page views, visits, time on page, and so on. This analysis is more granular and
allows you to get a deeper understanding and breakdown of the findings. For example you can get
analytics for specific pages and page paths. This data stream type is suitable for analytics platforms, such
as Google Analytics, and Adobe Analytics.
Web Analytics Tags
The web analytics tags data stream type is used for data that tracks goals and their completion in web
analytics. When setting a goal you can add a tag and name it, making it easier to track the goal and its
completion. This data stream type can be used for Google Analytics and more.
Generic Data Stream Type
The generic data stream type is used to ingest data that doesn’t comply with any of the existing
Marketing Cloud Intelligence data models. With all of its entities in a many-to-many relationship, dozens
of custom attributes for each entity, and a large number of custom measurements, it provides a flexibility
of structure that caters to a wide range of data types. You can use this data stream type to ingest any type
of data with various structures, such as survey responses, internal employee statistics, business process
analyses, and more.
Data Stream Types in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Marketing Cloud Intelligence includes different data stream types to map your data. A data stream
type defines which Marketing Cloud Intelligence fields are available for mapping based on your data
source. For example, if your data source contains campaign, placement, and ad ID fields, Marketing
Cloud Intelligence recognizes this as ads data and offers the Ads data stream type when mapping.
87

=== PAGE 92 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Data Stream Types in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Marketing Cloud Intelligence includes different data stream types to map your data. A data stream type
defines which Marketing Cloud Intelligence fields are available for mapping based on your data source.
For example, if your data source contains campaign, placement, and ad ID fields, Marketing Cloud
Intelligence recognizes this as ads data and offers the Ads data stream type when mapping.
Classification Data Stream Type
Classification data streams are used to apply a classification logic that exists in a secondary data source
to your primary data.
Competitive Data Stream Type
The competitive data stream type is suitable for datasets coming from public APIs and competitive
analysis tools. This data stream type is designed to fit multiple content worlds, all under the
competitive data category. It includes vendor-specific measurements like Facebook page and Twitter
likes and generic measurements suitable for multiple cases, such as lifetime likes.
CRM Data Stream Types
CRM stands for Customer Relationship Management. There are two data stream types for uploading
CRM data. One type for uploading leads data called CRM Leads, and one for opportunities data called
CRM. The CRM data stream type is equipped with slowly changing type 2 dimensions such as lead
stage, lead status, and lead modified date.
Data Stream Jobs Data Stream Type
The data stream jobs data stream type allows you to view statistics and information relevant to the
execution of your data streams. The data included in this data stream type is the same as the data
displayed in the data stream's log.
Ecommerce Data Stream Type
The ecommerce data stream type ingests different data types from ecommerce platforms. It provides
levels of data for product catalogs, placed orders, number of purchased items within each order, and
more.
Generic Data Stream Type in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The generic data stream type ingests data that doesn’t comply with any of the existing Marketing
Cloud Intelligence data models. All entities in a generic data stream type are in a many-to-many
relationship. It offers 50 custom attributes for each entity and 100 custom measurements. The generic
data stream type is flexible and caters to a wide range of data types.
Messaging Data Stream Type in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The messaging data stream type ingests email, mobile phone, and journey data. A message can be in
the form of an email, text message, or app notification. It’s typically associated with measurements
such as how many people received, opened, or clicked a message. This data stream type can be used
to ingest data from platforms such as Salesforce Marketing Cloud, Marketo, and Adobe.
Classification Data Stream Type
Classification data streams are used to apply a classification logic that exists in a secondary data source
to your primary data.
88

=== PAGE 93 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
A classification is used to group your data. Classifications can be created with calculated measurements,
and classification rules. With classification data streams you can filter and analyze your primary data
using the classification and apply classification to multiple entities at once. Read about different ways to
use the classification data stream type.
Use Case 1: Classification Data Stream Using a Parent-Child Setup
This use case looks at how to create a classification data stream using a parent-child setup.
Use Case 2: Classification Data Stream Using the VLOOKUP Function
This use case looks at how to create a classification data steam with VLOOKUP.
Use Case 1: Classification Data Stream Using a Parent-Child Setup
This use case looks at how to create a classification data stream using a parent-child setup.
RentACarWithUs is a car rental business who wants to classify its Facebook data using a classification that
only exists in their internal system. Since this particular classification isn’t part of the data that comes
from Facebook, it must be uploaded into Intelligence as a separate data stream. It can then be applied
to the Facebook data accordingly.
The finance department has a long list of PO (Purchase Order) numbers in their internal system, which
must be added to the campaign data. Create a data stream consisting of the relevant entities: Entity Key -
Campaign Key - along with the Classification Dimension - the PO Number.
To map the fields in the classification data stream, use this logic. Since the Campaign Key field in the
classification file is identical to the Facebook Ads Campaign Key, it can be mapped to the Intelligence
field by the same name. The PO Number is an attribute of Campaign Key, meaning there’s only one PO
Number for every Campaign Key. Therefore, it can be mapped as a Campaign Custom Attribute and have
its name changed as needed:
Mapping the Classification File into Intelligence
Classification File Dimensions Intelligence Fields
Campaign Key Campaign Key
Campaign Name Campaign Name
PO Number Campaign Custom Attribute
The next step is to update the PO Number values (Campaign Custom Attribute) within Facebook, with
the PO Number values from the classification data stream. This is done for the same Campaign Keys, as
shown in this diagram:
89

=== PAGE 94 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
After the data is updated, you can see that relevant PO number is assigned to each campaign within the
Facebook data stream:
Now, you must establish a parent-child relationship between the two data streams, so that they’re joined
on the basis of matching Entity Keys. This join allows the Facebook data stream to inherit attribute values
(Campaign Custom Attribute) from the classification data stream. All PO numbers are automatically
updated in the Facebook data stream for matching Campaign Keys.
In this example, set the classification data stream as the Parent and the Facebook data stream as the
Child. Any new data sources that are added, other than Facebook, automatically inherit this classification
as well.
You can also set up the Facebook data stream as the parent and classification as the child. But, this setup
is less scalable and if new data sources are added, each data source needs their own classification data
stream.
Use Case 2: Classification Data Stream Using the VLOOKUP Function
This use case looks at how to create a classification data steam with VLOOKUP.
90

=== PAGE 95 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Using a parent-child relationship isn’t always possible. Sometimes the data streams don’t have the same
Entity Key mapped, which is a prerequisite for establishing a parent-child relationship. Another way to
implement classifications is by using the VLOOKUP function. To update the PO Custom Attribute field,
map the PO Number (Campaign Custom Attribute) within the Facebook Ads data stream using this
Vlookup formula:
VLOOKUP(csv['Campaign Key'],[Campaign_Name],[PO],true,true,{'Classification Data
Stream'})
If both options are viable, using the parent-child method is more efficient and scalable than using the
Vlookup option. This is because the Vlookup option requires a dedicated Vlookup formula in the
mapping of each attribute you wish to update. Parent-child is a single configuration that automatically
updates all the attributes pertaining to a matched Entity Key. Additionally, applying classifications to new
data sources requires Vlookup mapping formulas in each source, making Vlookup the less favorable
option in cases where your classifications apply to multiple data sources. Also, the Vlookup command is
only initiated for data that was active during the data stream’s processing period. For example, if the
classification data stream is updated with a new PO value for a certain Facebook campaign, and the
Facebook data stream is reprocessed for the last 10 days, the new PO value isn’t updated in the
Facebook data stream if this particular campaign wasn’t active within these last 10 days. Using Vlookup is
more time consuming and has a higher likelihood that certain data isn’t updated.
Competitive Data Stream Type
The competitive data stream type is suitable for datasets coming from public APIs and competitive
analysis tools. This data stream type is designed to fit multiple content worlds, all under the competitive
data category. It includes vendor-specific measurements like Facebook page and Twitter likes and
generic measurements suitable for multiple cases, such as lifetime likes.
The competitive data stream type allows you to view your competitors’ data separately from your own
data. For example, you’re the marketing manager for a university. Your social data is retrieved from
different vendors, including Facebook, and it’s mapped using the social data stream type. Your
competitor data is retrieved using public data providers like Facebook Public and it’s mapped using the
competitive data stream type. This way, the page likes for other universities aren’t mapped to the same
measurements as your university.
Because competitive and social data is retrieved from different vendors, it’s mapped to different data
stream types. Creating an identical view of your data and your competitors’ data can be tricky. Retrieve
your data from the public and competitive vendors that you’re using. This method makes comparing
your data to competitors’ data much easier.
Competitive Data Stream Type Entities
The competitive data stream type has three entities, with the competitive page entity being the data
stream type’s main entity.
91

=== PAGE 96 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Competitive Data Stream Type Entities
The competitive data stream type has three entities, with the competitive page entity being the data
stream type’s main entity.
Available dimensions:
•
Competitor:
- Competitor Name
- Competitor Size
- Competitor Description
- Competitor custom attributes 1–5
•
Competitive Page:
- Competitive Page URL
- Competitive Page Platform
- Competitive Page Category
- Competitive Page custom attributes 1–10
•
Competitive Page Content:
92

=== PAGE 97 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
- Competitive Page Content Name
- Competitive Page Content URL
- Competitive Page Content Image URL
- Competitive Page Content custom attributes 1–10
Available measurements: All measurements are LIFETIME measurements.
•
Competitive Page Level:
- Facebook Page Likes
- Facebook New Page Likes
- Facebook Posts count
- Twitter Followers
- Twitter New Followers
- Twitter Tweets count
- Retweets
- Replies Likes (lifetime)
- LinkedIn Followers
- Website Traffic
- Website Visits
- Avg. Visit duration
- Search Results
- YouTube Channel Likes
- YouTube Channel Views
- Total Engagement
- Custom metrics 1–20
•
Competitive Page Content Level:
- Facebook Post Likes
- Facebook Post Comments
- Facebook Post Shares
- YouTube Video Views
- YouTube Video Likes
- YouTube Video Dislikes
- Tweet Likes
- Tweet Replies
- Tweet Retweets
- Competitive Page Content custom metrics 1–10
CRM Data Stream Types
CRM stands for Customer Relationship Management. There are two data stream types for uploading
CRM data. One type for uploading leads data called CRM Leads, and one for opportunities data called
CRM. The CRM data stream type is equipped with slowly changing type 2 dimensions such as lead stage,
lead status, and lead modified date.
The CRM leads data stream type ingests data from lead generation platforms such as Marketing Cloud
93

=== PAGE 98 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Account Engagement (Pardot), Hubspot Marketing, and Intercom. It also ingests data from CRM
platforms such as Salesforce, Sugar CRM, and CRM Creation.
CRM data stream types are unique since they’re the only data stream types that have Slowly Changing
Type 2 Dimensions. They’re also the only data stream types that upload data at the workspace level,
rather than the data stream level.
Slowly Changing Dimensions Type 2
With CRM data, opportunity or lead attributes are updated over time because an opportunity can go
through different stages. The CRM leads data stream type uses the slowly changing dimensions type 2
method to enable a data display suitable for these changes in dimension values. After a dimension’s
value changes, the new value appears from the modification date and onwards. The value isn’t
updated retroactively.
Lead Stage Dimension
The Lead Stage, one of the attributes of the Lead Entity, is a type 2 dimension from the CRM leads data
stream type. Over its life-span, it evolves and changes until it hopefully converts to an Opportunity.
Storing CRM Data
The CRM data is stored in the database in two separate tables.
Lead Modified Data in the CRM Data Stream Type
The Lead Modified Date is mandatory and serves as the only date-type field in the CRM data stream
types. It allows you to put the data on a timeline or have it filtered by date.
Lead Status
The lead status value has direct implications on how the lead stage value is displayed over a selected
date range.
Differences Between Leads and Opportunity Data Stream Types
The difference between Leads and Opportunity data stream types is seen by their Type 2 dimensions.
Measurements in the CRM Data Stream Types
There are two system-generated measurements, one for each CRM data stream type: Leads Count,
and Opportunities Count. These measurements perform a distinct count at Lead Key and Opportunity
Key level. For example, if you have a lead with three stages, the Leads Count measurement returns the
result of one as opposed to three.
The Connection Between the CRM Data Stream Types
The CRM Leads and CRM Opportunities data stream types are connected by shared dimensions and
attributes.
Population of the Opportunity ID
The opportunity ID is populated for each lead that’s populated in the source data.
Visualizing CRM Data
There are different ways that you can visualize CRM data. The visualization of a type 2 dimension, such
as Lead Stage, filtered for a certain date range, returns the dimension’s updated value. This is
according to its last Lead Modified Date value contained within the filtered date range.
Row Count in CRM Data Stream Types
When a slowly changing type 2 dimension changes its value over time, each value along with its
Modified Date is stored on a separate row in the database, identified by a unique Detail ID.
94

=== PAGE 99 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Slowly Changing Dimensions Type 2
With CRM data, opportunity or lead attributes are updated over time because an opportunity can go
through different stages. The CRM leads data stream type uses the slowly changing dimensions type 2
method to enable a data display suitable for these changes in dimension values. After a dimension’s
value changes, the new value appears from the modification date and onwards. The value isn’t updated
retroactively.
After a dimension’s value changes, the new value appears from the modification date and onwards. The
value isn’t updated retroactively.
The CRM data stream type includes four dimensions that work according to the slowly changing
dimensions type 2 method:
•
Status
•
Stage
•
Modified Date
•
Expected Close Date
For the platform to display the data properly, you must map two crucial dimensions:
•
Modified Date - This field is mandatory. It serves as the only date-type field in this data stream type.
The lead modified date is the date on which the other type 2 dimensions lead stage, and lead status,
changed.
•
Opportunity Status – This field has a closed list of values. The Opportunity Status field must be
mapped and contain one of these values. If the Opportunity Status isn’t mapped or it’s mapped
incorrectly, it can cause discrepancies in your data. The platform refers to any value that isn’t one of
the values, as CLOSED.
- OPEN – The opportunity is ongoing.
- CLOSED – The opportunity is resolved. After an opportunity is classified as CLOSED it doesn’t appear
in dates past its last modified date.
- DELETED – The opportunity isn’t relevant, the platform doesn’t display any appearances of the
opportunity in the data. Because data from different platforms can contain different values, use a
formula to map the Opportunity Status Dimension, for example:
- IF(csv['status'] contains 'Open', 'OPEN', 'CLOSED')
Or if you’re extracting the Opportunity Status from the Stage field:
- IF(csv['stage'] contains 'Closed', 'CLOSED', 'OPEN')
95

=== PAGE 100 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Lead Stage Dimension
The Lead Stage, one of the attributes of the Lead Entity, is a type 2 dimension from the CRM leads data
stream type. Over its life-span, it evolves and changes until it hopefully converts to an Opportunity.
Each of the new Stage values and the Dates on which these changes have taken place is what constitutes
the history of its attribute values:
Unlike the behavior of type 1 dimensions that can only hold one value (per Entity Key), a type 2
dimension can retain a full history of its attribute values due to how it’s stored in the database. Each Lead
Key is broken-down into additional rows. Each row holds the new Lead Stage value alongside the date on
which this change occurred, the Modified Date. These additional rows are identified by a unique Lead
Detail ID. It’s the same Lead Key over multiple rows with different Lead Detail IDs:
Note The Lead Detail ID can’t be accessed from within the platform, that is, you can’t select the
Lead Detail ID from within a widget. For example, when you want to see all the stage values of a
certain Lead Key. Its use is purely internal for the purpose of keeping a history of attribute values as
previously described.
Querying your data for a certain date range always returns the last updated Stage value for the last
Modified Date within the selected date range, not a list of all the values leading up to the last Modified
Date. To use the earlier dataset as an example, querying for Lead Key 135711 from 1/1/2019 to 22/1/
2019 doesn’t return 3 values: 'New', 'Working' and 'Nurturing', but rather only the updated (last) value
for that date range, for example,‘Nurturing’.
Storing CRM Data
The CRM data is stored in the database in two separate tables.
96

=== PAGE 101 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
One table has the Lead Key, Lead Detail IDs, and Type 2 Dimensions.
And the other table has Lead Key with the Type 1 Dimensions:
You can examine the way in which your CRM data is stored in the database using the Dimension
Explorer. Here you can see that the CRM entities have two identical fields accessible from the Dimension
Explorer’s dropdown. Each entity is sourced from a different table.
By viewing the dimensions available in each table allows you to recognize which table they belong to.
97

=== PAGE 102 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Having access to the CRM data from the Dimension Explorer and understanding its allocation into the
separate tables allows you to examine and manage your CRM data better. For example, the Dimension
Explorer is the only place from which you can see the data at Lead Detail ID level. It’s where you can
validate the different Stage values and Modified Dates for a certain Lead, as it appears in the database.
Since the data is at the workspace level, if you must delete your data, you have to delete the relevant
rows from the Dimension Explorer. Deleting the related data stream doesn’t delete the data.
When deleting CRM data, it must be deleted from both tables. If you delete the data from the table that
contains the Key and Type 1 Dimensions, then the data from the table with the Detail ID breakdown is
automatically deleted .
Lead Modified Data in the CRM Data Stream Type
The Lead Modified Date is mandatory and serves as the only date-type field in the CRM data stream
types. It allows you to put the data on a timeline or have it filtered by date.
98

=== PAGE 103 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The Lead Modified Date is the date on which the other type 2 dimensions within this data stream type,
Lead Stage, and Lead Status, have changed their values.
Note The Lead Modified Date dimension is strictly associated with these two dimensions. If for
example a certain type 1 attribute such as Lead Source changes, this new Lead Source value isn’t
associated with a Lead Modified Date.
Since there are only Modified Date values for when the type 2 dimensions change their values, this
produces a ‘data gap’ for any date values other than those specific Modified Date values. For example, in
the Stage Timeline, if you query the data between 15/1/2019 and 19/1/2019, you don’t have any data
for this date range:
The query fills in the data gap by creating Modified Date values between the two available Modified Date
values. It stretches or duplicates the first Stage value across that date range, thus creating data continuity.
This allows for data to match the query, as shown below:
99

=== PAGE 104 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Note The first part of the Lead lifecycle (between creation and first stage) is more sensitive than the
other stages, since its accuracy depends on whether all the historic data is pulled in. For example, if
data is pulled in from the Jan 16, 2019 onwards, any Lead Stage changes that have taken place
before the 16th are unknown, because that data isn’t being pulled. In such a case, stretching the
‘Working’ value all the way back to the Jan 13, 2019 may not be true for some of the dates before
Jan 16, 2019. If you need accurate historical data from when the Lead was first created, make sure
you pull in the historical data accordingly.
This method carries through for all the other data gaps; however from the first stage onwards, the
Modified Dates, and Stage values are stretched forward as opposed to backwards. So the ‘Working’ Stage
value is stretched across from the Jan 23rd until one day prior to the date on which it changes again for
example, until January 23rd. On the 27th it changes again to ‘Nurturing’ which is true until the Jan 30th
and so on.
Lead Status
The lead status value has direct implications on how the lead stage value is displayed over a selected
date range.
The Lead Status can be one of the following three values:
100

=== PAGE 105 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
UNQUALIFIED
•
QUALIFIED
•
DELETED
Unqualified means that the lead’s potential hasn’t been fully actualized even after its last available Stage
value on its Modified Date. Querying for such a lead for a date range that exceeds the lead’s last Modified
Date still returns the last Stage value despite there not being any Stage value for that date range. For
example, consider a lead whose last Modified Date for its ‘Nurturing’ Stage is Jan 31, 2019. Querying this
lead’s data for a date range that relates to a much later period, Dec 1, 2019 to Dec 31, 2019, still returns
the ‘Nurturing’ value:
This is achieved with the query assigning the last Stage value, in this case ‘Nurturing’, from the last
Modified Date indefinitely:
Qualified means that a lead’s potential had been fully actualized. As such, querying for such a lead for a
date range that exceeds the lead’s last Modified Date returns no data. For example, consider a lead
whose last Modified Date for its ‘Nurturing’ Stage is Jan 31, 2019. Querying this lead’s data from
February 1, 2019 onwards returns no data:
101

=== PAGE 106 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Deleted means that the lead is no longer relevant. Querying the data for such a lead returns no data,
irrespective of the date range.
Differences Between Leads and Opportunity Data Stream Types
The difference between Leads and Opportunity data stream types is seen by their Type 2 dimensions.
Both CRM data stream types have the same Type 2 dimensions with the exact same behavior. The
Opportunity data stream type has an additional Type 2 dimension called Opportunity Expected Close
Date. This attribute is another opportunity attribute whose value changes over time as part of the sales
process.
Another difference is that the Opportunities data stream type also allows for measurements to be
mapped, whereas the Leads data stream type doesn’t.
Measurements in the CRM Data Stream Types
There are two system-generated measurements, one for each CRM data stream type: Leads Count, and
Opportunities Count. These measurements perform a distinct count at Lead Key and Opportunity Key
level. For example, if you have a lead with three stages, the Leads Count measurement returns the result
of one as opposed to three.
The Opportunities data stream type supports mapping measurements. However, it’s recommended you
use system-generated measurements to create any required calculations internally, as opposed to pulling
102

=== PAGE 107 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
them directly from the source.
The Connection Between the CRM Data Stream Types
The CRM Leads and CRM Opportunities data stream types are connected by shared dimensions and
attributes.
Within the CRM Leads data stream type there’s a dimension called ‘Lead Converted Opportunity Key’ to
which you’re supposed to map the Opportunity ID associated with the lead in question:
If the Lead Converted Opportunity Key is mapped in the CRM Leads data stream type, data fusion is
applied automatically behind the scenes between the Lead Converted Opportunity Key and the
Opportunity Key from the CRM (Opportunities) data stream type:
After data fusion is established, data is consolidated from both sources for any matching Key values.
This fusion takes place behind the scenes and can’t be accessed from the platform. Furthermore,
because there can only be one fusion between two separate data stream types, you can’t create your
own fusion between these two data stream types.
103

=== PAGE 108 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Population of the Opportunity ID
The opportunity ID is populated for each lead that’s populated in the source data.
In Salesforce for example, if upon Lead conversion the appropriate ‘Convert Lead’ button is pressed (as
shown below), then this field is automatically populated. You still must make sure that you include this
field in your data stream query so that it’s included in the returned result. You can then map it to the
Lead Converted Opportunity Key appropriately.
If this procedure isn’t regularly followed within Salesforce, you have to pull this dimension value from
elsewhere (perhaps using another field or even perhaps another table within Salesforce). Otherwise the
fusion can’t work without the Lead Converted Opportunity Key being mapped.
When looking at fused or connected data for Leads and Opportunities, expect to see ‘gaps’, for example,
leads or opportunities, which don’t seem to be connected to anything. For example, if you have leads
that haven’t matured into opportunities yet, or opportunities that never started off as leads in the first
place. In both cases, the leads and opportunities don’t have matching keys and the fusion doesn’t work,
leaving these items to appear as gaps in a fused display.
Visualizing CRM Data
There are different ways that you can visualize CRM data. The visualization of a type 2 dimension, such as
Lead Stage, filtered for a certain date range, returns the dimension’s updated value. This is according to
its last Lead Modified Date value contained within the filtered date range.
104

=== PAGE 109 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
For example, consider this dataset.
If you filter this data to 19/10/2017, the last Lead Modified Date value contained within that date range
is 19/10/2017, and the Lead Stage value that was updated for that date is 'C Lead. Therefore, the result
that is returned for Lead Stage, for that date range, is 'C Lead', as shown below:
If you change your date filtering so that the range is now between 19/10/2017 and 23/10/2017, the
last Lead Modified Date value contained within that date range is 22/10/2017 when the Lead Stage
changed to ‘Working’, which is the value that’s returned as shown below:
Similarly, if the date filtering is then extended and the date range is between 19/10/2017 and 24/10/
2017, the last Lead Modified Date value contained within that date range is 24/10/2017 when the Lead
Stage changed to ‘Nurturing’, which is the value that’s returned as shown below:
105

=== PAGE 110 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Since on 24/10/2017 the Lead Status also changed its value to 'QUALIFIED', filtering the date range to
start anytime after that date, such as between 25/10/2017 and 31/10/2017, returns ‘No Data’ as shown
below:
Consider the following dataset:
Filtering the date range for Lead2 or Lead3 for any time after their Lead Modified Date, for example
between 1/20/2018 and 1/10/2019 still returns these two leads as their status is set to ‘UNQUALIFIED’
as shown below:
Best Practices
If you’re uploading Salesforce data, use the Salesforce SOQL connector.
•
Using this method is unlimited in terms of the number of rows that are returned by the query, as
opposed to using the Salesforce Reports Connector, which is limited to 2,000 rows.
•
As a ‘healthy’ setup, you should create one data stream for pulling the 'Historic' data from the CRM
source and one data stream for updating ‘Deltas’ (changes). With the data being updated at the
workspace level, this setup is easy to manage and maintain:
•
Avoid using the TODAY() date function for ‘Modified Date’. This is bad practice since it increases row
count and affects performance. Since hourly breakdown isn’t supported, applying TODAY() means you
could potentially lose data, as there can’t be more than one row for the same lead for the same date.
106

=== PAGE 111 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Row Count in CRM Data Stream Types
When a slowly changing type 2 dimension changes its value over time, each value along with its Modified
Date is stored on a separate row in the database, identified by a unique Detail ID.
The same Lead Key for example, can have multiple Lead Detail ID rows. With the CRM data stream types,
the row count is summed up as per the number of Detail ID rows generated in the database, regardless
of the number of lead or opportunity keys themselves. So, the same Lead Key for example, with 5
different stage values on separate Lead Modified Dates, is counted as 5 rows.
CRM Data Stream Structures
Note The "Country" dimension is an attribute of the "Company key" dimension. If you don’t map
the Company key and have different country values, only one country appears.
Data Stream Jobs Data Stream Type
The data stream jobs data stream type allows you to view statistics and information relevant to the
execution of your data streams. The data included in this data stream type is the same as the data
displayed in the data stream's log.
The data displayed is per file uploaded to TotalConnect or per run when discussing API data streams. To
view the data aggregated at the data stream level, you can use dimensions and measurements from the
data stream data stream type.
Data Stream Jobs Data Stream Type Entities
107

=== PAGE 112 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The data stream jobs data stream type contains these dimensions and measurements.
Data Stream Jobs Data Stream Type Entities
The data stream jobs data stream type contains these dimensions and measurements.
Note Data stream jobs dimensions can’t be harmonized.
This table lists all of the available dimensions.
Dimension Description
Data Stream Job Data End The last data date included in the file.
Data Stream Job Data Start The first data date included in the file.
Data Stream Job Date The date (ddMMYY) in which the file started processing.
Data Stream Job End Execution The date (ddMMYY) in which the file finished processing.
Time
Data Stream Job Excluded Receives either a TRUE or FALSE value, indicates whether the file is
excluded from reprocessing.
Data Stream Job File The name of the file.
Data Stream Job Id A unique ID given to the file or API run.
Data Stream Job Length Indicates how long it took for the file to process (HH:mm:SS).
Data Stream Job Origin Receives one of the following values - Create, Upload, Recreate,
Workflow, or Bucket Data Upload (manual changes).
Data Stream Job Reason Details the reason the data stream failed to process.
Data Stream Job Size The File size.
Data Stream Job Source Receives one of the following values - Upload, Mail, SFTP, or API.
Data Stream Job Start Execution The date (ddMMYY) in which the file started processing.
Time
Data Stream Job Status Whether the run was successful or not.
Data Stream Job User The Marketing Cloud Intelligence username of the person
responsible for the run or upload.
This table lists all of the available measurements.
108

=== PAGE 113 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Available Measurements
Dimension Description
Data Stream Job Added Rows The number of rows that were added to the platform.
Data Stream # Of Added Rows The total number of rows that were added to a processed data
stream according to the rules of the data stream.
Data Stream Job Source Rows The number of rows in the original file.
Ecommerce Data Stream Type
The ecommerce data stream type ingests different data types from ecommerce platforms. It provides
levels of data for product catalogs, placed orders, number of purchased items within each order, and
more.
The ecommerce data stream type is an extension to the product data stream type. It accommodates
more use cases and datasets revolving around ecommerce data. You can use it for any flat file that
contains ecommerce data related to orders, order items, and products. It’s also the data stream type that
the ecommerce API connectors Amazon Seller Central, Amazon Vendor Central Inventory, and Salesforce
Order Management (OMS) use.
The ecommerce data stream type provides this information.
•
Product catalog—Tracks and analyzes products that you have in different ecommerce sources. You can
tie it to the revenue for each product and use it to remove the granularity of order level.
•
Order level data—Tracks details about orders placed over time, including revenue, tax, quantity ordered
and shipped, and order level discounts.
•
Order item level data—Applies to each product purchased in a specific order. It includes the product
level data and price on the date of purchase. You link it to the Product Catalog to fill the data of each
item purchased, such as image, category, and SKU.
Use Cases
Here are some common use cases for the ecommerce data stream type.
•
Track and investigate measurements at the order level: AOV, total revenue, ROAS, #number of orders
Map the order level data, with or without the product or order item level data.
•
Track and investigate product KPIs: Top performing products, product performance over time
Map product level data that contains revenue to the order total revenue field. An order key is created
so that you can map the data easily according to the time period revenue for each product.
•
Track ROAS at a campaign and product level: product purchases generated by campaigns
Campaign level data is attached to each order with web analytics tracking, using the Order Key as a
link. Each campaign is then mapped to the order items to understand which products were purchased
for each campaign that ran. When using the ecommerce data stream type, discounts, taxes, and order
cancellations are considered to calculate a more accurate ROAS.
109

=== PAGE 114 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Here’s a video about recent enhancements for ecommerce:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/n6aWaFo2UAHci4ScKkV28A
Ecommerce Data Stream Type Entities
The ecommerce data stream type contains the entities Ecommerce Order, Clients, Campaigns, Order
Item, and Products as well as Web Analytics entities.
Mapping Advertiser Data to Campaign Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Campaign data isn’t connected to advertiser data, so you can’t see campaign data with the
ecommerce data stream type. Instead, you can manually map your campaign data to either the order
level or order item (SKU) level.
Reducing the Number of Rows Produced with the Ecommerce Data Stream Type
Ecommerce data contains different levels, from product to order level data. As a result, it can include a
large number of rows to map to get the desired insights. (For example, you can have a woman’s dress
in three colors and three sizes). When viewing this data, each level has several rows. To reduce the
number of rows, you can aggregate the data on a less granular level using these options.
Ecommerce Data Stream Type Considerations
Keep these considerations in mind when using the ecommerce data stream type.
Uploading New Data into an Ecommerce Data Stream
What happens to ecommerce data after it’s been uploaded to Marketing Cloud Intelligence and new
data is retrieved? When is the data stream performing an upsert as opposed to a replace? The
ecommerce data stream type acts differently from other data stream types.
Ecommerce Data Stream Type Entities
The ecommerce data stream type contains the entities Ecommerce Order, Clients, Campaigns, Order
Item, and Products as well as Web Analytics entities.
Ecommerce Order
The main entity of the ecommerce data stream type. It covers a large amount of information regarding
an ecommerce order. If the data doesn’t have an order key, default values are created for the separate
orders based on the date that the data was uploaded.
Available dimensions:
•
Ecommerce Order Key
•
Ecommerce Order Name
•
Ecommerce Order Channel Source
•
Ecommerce Order Status
•
Ecommerce Order Commerce Platform
•
Ecommerce Order Delivery Type
•
Ecommerce Order Created Date
110

=== PAGE 115 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Ecommerce Order Closed Date
•
Ecommerce Last Update Date
•
Ecommerce Order City
•
Ecommerce Order Country
•
Ecommerce Brand Name
•
Five custom attributes
Available measurements:
•
Ecommerce Order Tax
•
Ecommerce Order Shipping Cost
•
Ecommerce Order Total Revenue (usually the sum of all [Order Item Revenue] with order level
discounts, taxes, and shipping costs removed from the total.)
•
Ecommerce Order Sub Revenue
•
Ecommerce Order Total Discount
•
Ecommerce Order Total Discount Tax
•
Ecommerce Order Shipping Tax
•
Ecommerce Order Shipping Discount
•
Ecommerce Order Quantity Ordered
•
Ecommerce Order Quantity Shipped
•
Five custom measurements
Product
An overarching entity that exists across other data stream types in Marketing Cloud Intelligence. You can
use it for connectivity across datasets outside of the ecommerce data stream type.
Available dimensions:
•
Product Key
•
Product Name
•
Product Category
•
Product Subcategory
•
Product SKU
•
Product Description
•
Product Vendor
•
Product Image
•
Product Brand Name
•
Ten custom attributes
Available measurements:
•
Unit Price
•
Unit Cost
111

=== PAGE 116 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Order Items
Revolves around the items within an order. It contains granular information regarding ecommerce order
items.
Available dimensions:
•
Currency
•
Ten custom attributes
Available measurements:
•
Order Item Revenue — Maps the revenue brought by each order item, and includes the discounts on
the order item level.
•
Order Item Unit Cost
•
Order Item Unit Price
•
Order Item Tax
•
Order Item Quantity Ordered
•
Order Item Quantity Shipped
•
Order Item Quantity Returned
•
10 custom measurements
Campaign
An entity that exists within multiple data stream types. You can use it to connect ecommerce data with
advertising data across Marketing Cloud Intelligence. By default, campaign data isn’t connected to
advertising data.
Available dimensions:
•
Campaign Key
•
Campaign Name
Client
Contains information regarding the customer who placed an ecommerce order. Personally identifiable
information is properly secured.
Available dimensions:
•
Client Key
•
Client Name
•
Client City
•
Client Country
•
Client Lead Source
•
Client Status
112

=== PAGE 117 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Client Title
•
Client Address
•
Client Phone
•
Client Mobile
•
Client Email
•
15 custom attributes
Web Analytics
Contains information regarding the web analytics site. This is a main entity and relates to the Web
Analytics data stream type. It contains the following entities: Web Analytics Site, Web Analytics Site
Source, Campaign, Media Buy, Site, Creative and Device.
Available dimensions:
•
Web Analytics Site Key
•
Web Analytics Site
•
Web Analytics Site URL
•
Web Analytics Site Source Key
•
Web Analytics Site Source
•
Web Analytics Site Medium
•
Web Analytics Site Campaign
Mapping Advertiser Data to Campaign Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Campaign data isn’t connected to advertiser data, so you can’t see campaign data with the ecommerce
data stream type. Instead, you can manually map your campaign data to either the order level or order
item (SKU) level.
Connecting the campaign at the order level connects all product purchases generated from a specific
campaign. You can also see which campaigns generated sales for products that weren’t advertised.
Connecting the campaign at the SKU level connects each individual product purchase with the
campaign, for campaigns that were product-specific.
Connecting the advertising data together with ecommerce data allows calculation of ROAS (Return on
Advertising Spend) per product.
To manually map your campaign data:
•
Map Campaign Name or Campaign Key to the Order Key or Order Item Key.
•
Create a pattern or classification rule to harmonize the name of the campaigns to the names of the
products, or the product categories that the campaigns are running on.
If you have a campaign for specific products, use naming conventions to extract the product name.
113

=== PAGE 118 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Reducing the Number of Rows Produced with the Ecommerce Data Stream Type
Ecommerce data contains different levels, from product to order level data. As a result, it can include a
large number of rows to map to get the desired insights. (For example, you can have a woman’s dress in
three colors and three sizes). When viewing this data, each level has several rows. To reduce the number
of rows, you can aggregate the data on a less granular level using these options.
•
Map your data at the SKU (product) level directly to the order item data model to show revenue
brought from products while removing the granularity level of the orders.
•
Map your data at the product category level directly to the order item data model, showing revenue
on the category level.
•
Aggregate your data with the Granular Data Center, create queries, and then use TotalConnect to pull
it into Intelligence with any granularity level that you choose. For more information about the Granular
Data Center, contact your Marketing Cloud Intelligence representative.
Ecommerce Data Stream Type Considerations
Keep these considerations in mind when using the ecommerce data stream type.
•
Because the ecommerce data stream type includes the product data stream type, you no longer need
to use the product data stream type.
•
Your data from the product data stream type is migrated for you. It’s recommended that you change
the mapping of Revenue to either Order Total Revenue or Order Item Revenue to have one revenue
field for all future connectors.
•
You can connect your ecommerce data with your advertising data using the Campaign Name field at
either the order level data or order item level data.
•
If your ecommerce data contains a large number of rows, map your data to the product level or
category level. You can also use Granular Data Centers to pull in granular data, query it, and then
import using TotalConnect.
Uploading New Data into an Ecommerce Data Stream
What happens to ecommerce data after it’s been uploaded to Marketing Cloud Intelligence and new
data is retrieved? When is the data stream performing an upsert as opposed to a replace? The
ecommerce data stream type acts differently from other data stream types.
The ecommerce data stream type pulls all of its data based on three entities: product, order, and order
item (which represents a product in a specific order). When new data is loaded, there are two types of
data.
Data containing the order key
The order key is from the data stream. If the status, revenue, or any other dimension or metric
was updated, Marketing Cloud Intelligence recognizes that the order already exists and overrides
the revenue and other properties based on the order key. For example, if an order updates the
status from created to shipped, the status updates according to the update date. The created
114

=== PAGE 119 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
date is saved as a different property.
Data not containing the order key
This data is updated daily or on a regular basis but doesn’t have a specific order key, such as
product sales per day. The data model creates an order key behind the scenes according to the
data stream and the date and time of data retrieval. If data is updated on the same day, then the
same order key is generated according to the data and the data stream’s ID and all the data is
replaced accordingly.
Note Because this behavior is dependent on the data being loaded, the Upsert and Replace options
in the advanced settings aren’t relevant for the ecommerce data stream type.
Generic Data Stream Type in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The generic data stream type ingests data that doesn’t comply with any of the existing Marketing Cloud
Intelligence data models. All entities in a generic data stream type are in a many-to-many relationship. It
offers 50 custom attributes for each entity and 100 custom measurements. The generic data stream type
is flexible and caters to a wide range of data types.
Here’s a video about the generic data stream type:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/fUfcBPqwjPm1fNtW74kJ5x?
Generic Data Stream Type Entities and Measurements
The generic data steam type contains five entities and one hundred custom measurements.
Create a Generic Data Stream
Create a generic data stream when you must upload data that doesn’t comply with any of the existing
Marketing Cloud Intelligence data models. For example, create a generic data stream if you have
survey data that you want to visualize but it doesn’t fit into any of the preset data stream types.
Generic Data Stream Type Entities and Measurements
The generic data steam type contains five entities and one hundred custom measurements.
Entities — The generic data stream type has five entities: one main entity and four peripheral entities. The
main entity is always named after the data stream created. The entities have a many-to-many
relationship, and each entity has fifty custom attributes.
Measurements — Generic data stream types have one hundred custom measurements. Although generic
data stream types have a unique structure, they’re still an integral part of the Marketing Cloud
Intelligence data model. The main entity maintains a relationship with the overarching entities.
115

=== PAGE 120 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a Generic Data Stream
Create a generic data stream when you must upload data that doesn’t comply with any of the existing
Marketing Cloud Intelligence data models. For example, create a generic data stream if you have survey
data that you want to visualize but it doesn’t fit into any of the preset data stream types.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a generic data stream: Admin
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, click Data Streams. You can apply a generic data stream type to a new
data stream or an existing one. If you haven’t created a data stream yet, refer to Create Data Streams.
22.. Go to the mapping of a TotalConnect/API Custom data stream, and click Switch Data Stream type.
33.. To create a new generic data stream, click the blue plus icon.
44.. Enter a name and description, and then click Create. The new generic data stream type appears in the
Data Stream Type list.
55.. To share the generic data stream type with other accounts or workspaces, click Share.
66.. Select the accounts that you want to share with, and then click Save.
Additional information:
The generic data stream type is automatically shared with the workspaces that are shared with the
data stream template.
When making a data stream template visible on the account level, the generic data stream type must
be shared manually with all the workspaces in the account. It’s best to share the generic data stream
type first, and then make it visible on the account level.
Generic data stream types include unique dimensions and measurements not originally available in
the Marketing Cloud Intelligence system. For these dimensions to appear in the executive workspace,
the data stream type must be shared with the executive workspace.
77.. To apply the generic data stream type to your data stream, click the generic type, and then click
Continue.
88.. Map the dimensions and measurements.
99.. To change the display name, click Model Field Properties.
Unlike data-specific stream types, with generic data stream types, the default display name for
dimensions and measurements is also generic. To avoid confusion later and correlate with the source
data, it’s advised that you change the display name when mapping.
1100.. Save your work.
116

=== PAGE 121 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Messaging Data Stream Type in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The messaging data stream type ingests email, mobile phone, and journey data. A message can be in the
form of an email, text message, or app notification. It’s typically associated with measurements such as
how many people received, opened, or clicked a message. This data stream type can be used to ingest
data from platforms such as Salesforce Marketing Cloud, Marketo, and Adobe.
Messaging Data Stream Type Entities in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The messaging data stream type contains three types of entities: messaging, ads, and overarching.
Messaging Data Stream Type Entities in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The messaging data stream type contains three types of entities: messaging, ads, and overarching.
Message Entities
Message Send is this data stream type’s main entity. All entities and measurements primarily
relate to the message send. For example, the recipient list is the name of the list that a message
send was sent to. Similarly, the journey is the journey or a workflow that a message send is a part
of, and so on.
Ads Entities
Ads entities are entities used in Ads-related data stream types. They enable linking messaging
data to ads data based on matching dimension values for campaign, site, and media buy. For
example, if you have a matching campaign name in a messaging and ads data stream, you can
see the message open rate and the impressions that the same campaign generates in each
source.
Overarching Entities
Overarching entities are classification-purpose dimensions that exist in all data stream types and
enable classifying data from multiple sources for matching values. For example, it’s possible to
see all the data from messaging and analytics data stream types for the matching product value.
The hierarchical relationship between entities can be a one-to-many or a many-to-many
relationship. This relationship dictates the number of possible values of one entity against the
other. For example, the relationship between product and message send is a one-to-many
relationship. One product can have many message sends, but each message send can only have
one product.
117

=== PAGE 122 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Messaging Measurements
This table lists all the measurements in the messaging data stream type alongside their aggregation
method.
This data stream type has the exact same measurements in both Sum Aggregation and Lifetime
Aggregation. For example, message soft bounces from the source data can be mapped to message soft
bounces or message soft bounces (Lifetime) in Marketing Cloud Intelligence. You can decide which
aggregation method to use based on the relationship between the date breakdown in the source data.
The messaging data stream type also contains Rate Measurements in percentage terms.
Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
One of the most crucial steps when working with Marketing Cloud Intelligence, is uploading data. Since
Marketing Cloud Intelligence supports numerous types of data, you can choose from many different
ways to upload it. During the upload stage, you can map your data to determine which fields appear in
Marketing Cloud Intelligence, and you can even create custom calculated fields to get the most out of
your data. All these actions are done in the Connect & Mix tab.
Create Data Streams in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Whenever you upload data, data streams are created. These data streams can be referenced
throughout the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform, for example in pivot tables, reports, and
dashboards. There are several methods available for creating data streams in Marketing Cloud
Intelligence. You can use an API connector to connect via API, TotalConnect to upload external files,
LiteConnect if you have data from a single source, or even Granular Data Centers if you have granular
data. You can choose which method is best for you.
Mapping Your Source Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Mapping connects the source fields in your uploaded file to the corresponding Marketing Cloud
Intelligence fields. Intelligence uses machine learning algorithms to map your data. The mapping
process is similar regardless of which method you use to upload your data, with some minor
differences. If you’re using an API connector to upload your data, Marketing Cloud Intelligence
automatically maps the fields for you, but you can make changes to the mapping. If you’re using
TotalConnect, Intelligence identifies the most suitable data stream type according to your data and
offers an initial mapping suggestion.
Advanced Settings in Data Streams in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Define advanced settings to your data stream to select load modes, load rules, or configure additional
settings. The available settings vary based on the type of data stream that you’re creating.
Data Stream Control Center
The Data Stream Control Center is a dashboard that centralizes data stream management into a single
118

=== PAGE 123 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
view. You can assess stream status, evaluate data quality, and identify ingestion issues. Get actionable
insights for improved data hygiene and row management. The Data Stream Control Center is
automatically filtered to show data for Today. To view the Data Stream Control Center dashboard, in
the Connect & Mix tab, expand the Control Center tab.
Data Stream List
View, manage, and create data streams from the Data Stream List, in the Connect & Mix tab.
Data Stream Templates in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use data stream templates to create a mapping template that you can replicate to create data
streams. Store the template on the workspace or account level. You can share data stream templates
between workspaces and accounts. The data stream template saves formulas used in the original data
stream.
Data Mapping Visualizer
Use the Data Mapping Visualizer tool to view an animated display of the mapped data in your
Intelligence workspace. Data Mapping Visualizer lets you easily view and search your mapped data.
Workflows in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use workflows to execute data streams, reports, and actions in your workspace. For example, create a
workflow to generate a report after specific data streams are processed.
Transformation Rules
Use transformation rules to set values to a specified attribute, based on a set of defined criteria. The
rules can be set at the level of the entity key or name. Transformation rules are most effective when
the entity key or name has a consistent naming convention.
Transformation Groups
Transformation groups allow you to classify attributes of entities, such as sites, campaigns, or
products, so you can filter information.
Create Data Streams in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Whenever you upload data, data streams are created. These data streams can be referenced throughout
the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform, for example in pivot tables, reports, and dashboards. There
are several methods available for creating data streams in Marketing Cloud Intelligence. You can use an
API connector to connect via API, TotalConnect to upload external files, LiteConnect if you have data
from a single source, or even Granular Data Centers if you have granular data. You can choose which
method is best for you.
Creating Data Streams with TotalConnect in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
If you need to upload data from a source and no API connector exists, you can create a data stream
with TotalConnect. For example, if you have a proprietary dataset in Excel, CSV, or another file format,
or if a custom report is sent to you by a data partner that is beyond the scope of what their API can
provide.
Creating Data Streams with API Connectors in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
API connectors enable you to easily connect data sources such as Google Ads or Facebook to
Marketing Cloud Intelligence. When you connect an API connector, an API data stream is created that
automatically maps the data fields the vendor provides to the Marketing Cloud Intelligence data
119

=== PAGE 124 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
model, allowing you to access your information.
Creating Data Streams with LiteConnect in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
With LiteConnect, you can upload a file into Marketing Cloud Intelligence as is and visualize the data
automatically. You don’t need to consider the predefined structure and constraints of the data model
or map fields.
Create Data Streams with DirectConnect
DirectConnect is a premium feature that allows you to retrieve data directly from an external database,
without having to store the data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence’s database. DirectConnect is used in
cases where you have data sensitivity issues, or you want to display and interact with your data from an
external source instead.
Pull Data 360 Data into Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Data 360 unifies your data from multiple sources so that you can build a comprehensive view of your
customer. Pull in a small amount of data with TotalConnect or try the Granular Data Center connector
for larger amounts. You can also install the Data Cloud app to get predefined insights.
Creating Data Streams with TotalConnect in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
If you need to upload data from a source and no API connector exists, you can create a data stream with
TotalConnect. For example, if you have a proprietary dataset in Excel, CSV, or another file format, or if a
custom report is sent to you by a data partner that is beyond the scope of what their API can provide.
With TotalConnect, you can either upload a flat file or use a technical vendor. You can define the retrieval
method, for example, if you want to pull your data via an HTTPS server. You can also decide what to do
when new data comes in, for example, replace the existing data with the new data or filter out data
before it’s loaded.
Create a Data Stream with TotalConnect in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can upload data manually, automatically using FTP, or an email address, or by scheduling an
update with a technical vendor.
Preview Source Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
After you upload your data with TotalConnect, a preview of your source data lets you see how
Marketing Cloud Intelligence reads the raw data, including fields and their types. The table reflects all
the fields (columns) from your source file. Each field is defined with a type—text, number, or date—and
you change the type if needed. You can also change the date format.
Transformers in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Transformers are a set of configurations applied to files that are uploaded into Marketing Cloud
Intelligence. Transformers are used to alter the structure of the data files in order to pull the exact data
sets you need. They instruct the platform as to what data table must be extracted from your source file
allowing you to manipulate the file structure.
Mapping Your Source Data in TotalConnect
Mapping connects the source fields in your uploaded file to the corresponding Marketing Cloud
Intelligence fields. Marketing Cloud Intelligence uses machine learning algorithms to map your data.
The mapping process is similar regardless of which method you use to upload your data, with some
minor differences. If you’re using TotalConnect, Intelligence identifies the most suitable data stream
120

=== PAGE 125 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
type according to your data and offers an initial mapping suggestion.
Troubleshoot Total Connect Data Streams
Errors can occur that prevent data streams from being created or processed. You can view errors using
the Log button. The log contains important technical information and can help you diagnose issues.
Create a Data Stream with TotalConnect in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can upload data manually, automatically using FTP, or an email address, or by scheduling an update
with a technical vendor.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To upload data: Admin
When uploading data, be aware of the data limits:
•
Direct upload—40 MB / 15 million rows (subsequent)
• Email—30 МB / 15 million rows (subsequent)
•
Import—500 GB / 15 million rows (subsequent)
•
FTP—500 GB / 15 million rows (subsequent)
•
The timeout for a file retrieval from the provider is 55 minutes
•
The timeout for the file processing is 120 minutes
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams, and then Data Streams List.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Click TotalConnect.
44.. To upload a file, drag it to the center of the page.
55.. To use a technical vendor, select the technical vendor from the list.
66.. To use a template, click Use Template.
After the data uploads, a preview screen appears. For information about viewing the source data and
how to change it, see Preview Source Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Preview Source Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
After you upload your data with TotalConnect, a preview of your source data lets you see how Marketing
Cloud Intelligence reads the raw data, including fields and their types. The table reflects all the fields
(columns) from your source file. Each field is defined with a type—text, number, or date—and you change
the type if needed. You can also change the date format.
Field Types
Each field is defined with a different type (text, number, or date), and you can change the type if
121

=== PAGE 126 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
necessary. Click the column name and select the type.
Date Type Fields
When it comes to date type fields, recognizing date formats is of utmost importance regarding data
correctness and aggregation. In order to ingest a particular row of data, Marketing Cloud Intelligence
must be able to read the date format correctly.
Since there are a variety of different date formats, Marketing Cloud Intelligence automatically recognizes
the format that was used in the data source. In some cases, multiple formats are used, therefore more
than one format is found.
To change the date format or add a second date format, click the Day column and then click the Settings
icon. You can select a format from the list or enter a date format. To apply more than two date formats,
use the PARSEDATE() function.
Transformers
Transformers are applied to your source file to create the final data table that is used later when
mapping. Four transformers are automatically applied: File, Table, Headers, and Totals. You can add
transformers for more advanced file structure manipulations.
When you apply transformers, you can see how your source data is affected in Preview.
See Transformers in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for more information about what you can do with
Transformers.
Highlight Tool
Use the highlight tool to focus on a specific field type. For example, you can highlight all the date
columns.
You can highlight date, text, and number fields, as well as columns added by transformers, which create
additional columns, like transpose, or unnest.
Transformers in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Transformers are a set of configurations applied to files that are uploaded into Marketing Cloud
Intelligence. Transformers are used to alter the structure of the data files in order to pull the exact data
sets you need. They instruct the platform as to what data table must be extracted from your source file
122

=== PAGE 127 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
allowing you to manipulate the file structure.
For example, if your source file contains extra or missing information— missing headers, multiple sheets,
and extra rows or columns. The transformers allow you to manipulate the file structure, for example
inserting a default header where it’s missing so that data is pulled correctly. Transformers are applied
during the preview source step when creating or editing a TotalConnect data stream. Four transformers
are applied to your data automatically: File, Table, Headers, and Totals. Add additional transformers for
more advanced file structure manipulations.
Apply File Transformers in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use file transformers when you want to transform a file that has special characteristics like uncommon
delimiters, multiple sheets, or specific file encoding. For example, if a file uses ~~ as the delimiter
instead of a comma or a tab, use the file transformer to specify the custom delimiter so that you can
map the file correctly.
Apply Table Transformers in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The table transformer enables you to customize a table’s start and end rows and columns.
Apply Header Transformers in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
If you want to customize the header structure when headers aren’t available or span multiple rows,
you can use a header transformer. For example, if a file has a two-line header that must be combined
into one row.
Total Rows Transformers in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the total rows transformer when you want to change the default behavior of Marketing Cloud
Intelligence to strip out “totals” rows from all files. For example, if a file has non-additive
measurements, and you want only the totals row mapped, use this transformer.
Transpose Transformers in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use a transpose transformer when you want to reconstruct a flat-file format by translating columns of
data into rows. For example, if a file has three conversion types in three separate columns that you
want to aggregate into “total conversions,” they must be transposed into rows from columns. A
column of data in a flat-file corresponds to a field that could be mapped in the Marketing Cloud
Intelligence data model. So anytime you can streamline the number of potential mapped fields, you
free up fields that can be used for other dimensions or measurements. After transpose settings are set
for a data stream, new files uploaded to the data stream automatically inherit the predefined pattern
that was specified upon initial integration.
Apply Unnest Transformers in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The unnest transformer enables you to transform concatenated values into separate rows. The
measurement values linked to the nested row are duplicated to each new row. For example, If there
are three values, comma-separated, and one field must be broken out into individual rows of data, this
transformer creates individual rows for each value in that field.
Apply Pivot Transformers in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The pivot transformer can transform values from selected columns into new individual columns, which
then contain aggregated values for the measurements.
Apply PGP/GPG Decryptor Transformers in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can use the PGP/GPG transformer when you want to decrypt uploaded encrypted files with a
PGP/GPG decrypting tool.
123

=== PAGE 128 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Apply Data Transformer in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Select the data transformer checkbox to manipulate actual data contained in the files you upload.
Apply File Transformers in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use file transformers when you want to transform a file that has special characteristics like uncommon
delimiters, multiple sheets, or specific file encoding. For example, if a file uses ~~ as the delimiter instead
of a comma or a tab, use the file transformer to specify the custom delimiter so that you can map the file
correctly.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To apply transformers: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams, and then Data Streams List.
22.. Create a data stream, or edit an existing one.
33.. In the Preview Source screen, click Edit Transformers. File transformers are added by default.
44.. In the Transformers in Use section, next to the File transformer, click Edit.
55.. In the File Format dialog, in the Detection area, select how you want to detect the file types.
Auto Detects any format type
Manually defines allowed formats and the order
of detection. If you select this option, you can
Custom
change the order of the format types and decide
which to include or not to include.
66.. In the Settings area, click on a format type to edit the settings.
77.. Click Done.
CSV Options
•
Use Unquoted Multiline Fields Format — The standard in text files is that quotation marks surround
each value. For example, "campaign name". The quotation marks indicate where the value starts and
ends. When “Enter” is used, it marks a new line of data. When these settings don’t exist, you need a
special configuration so that the platform understands the file correctly. Before selecting this option,
it’s advisable to consult with the R&D team.
•
Use Custom Delimiter — All text files have a delimiter that separates between different columns. Two
of the more common separators are CSV, which uses a comma-separated file, and TSV, which uses a
tab-separated file. You can also create a text file that has a special separator. Typically you use this
option when there are tabs and commas inside the data.
•
Use Custom Quote Character — The standard in text files is that quotation marks surround. For
example, "campaign name". The quotation marks indicate where the value starts and ends. In some
cases, there’s no separator between values. When quotation marks or separators don’t exist, you need
a special configuration so that the platform understands the file correctly.
124

=== PAGE 129 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Use Custom Escape Character — An escape character allows you to insert characters that are usually
part of a file’s string and not as standalone characters. In text files, the standard escape character is
usually a backslash \. For example, you have inches in your file, say, 21", and your quote character is ".
The escape character allows the platform to understand that the quotes aren’t used as quote
characters, but rather as part of the data. So if you enter 21\", the data looks like 21" at the end.
However, if your file contains a different escape character, other than a backslash, select this option,
and then insert the custom escape character that’s in your file.
•
File Encoding — It’s recommended that you set this option to Auto Detect. In cases where you see that
the encoding wasn’t properly detected, for example, the field names read like gibberish or are sliced
incorrectly, set the encoding manually.
Excel Options
•
Sheet Name — If you have multiple sheets in your file, select the sheet that you want to upload. Or you
can use a wildcard with an asterisk for the sheet name in case it changes. For example, the sheet
contains today’s date, such as Report Jan 1, and the date changes with every upload (Report Feb 2,
Report Mar 3, etc). In that case, you can use a wildcard (Report*) and then choose the sheet
dynamically.
•
Use first sheet as default — Select this option, if you want the first sheet to be selected in cases where
the selected sheet isn’t found in the file.
•
Protected Workbook Password — If the Excel file you uploaded is password-protected, enter the
password here. Upload the file after the password is provided. If you didn’t know the file was
encrypted, and you uploaded it before being asked to supply a password, upload it again after
providing the password. Decryption is available only for workbook encryption for Excel version 2007
and above. Sheet encryption isn’t supported.
•
Best practice — Marketing Cloud Intelligence must be able to open the source file of the data stream,
which is the first file uploaded. After the source file is encrypted, you want the password for the data
stream to always match this file so that it can always be opened. When using passwords in encrypted
files the password can’t be changed. If you know the password could change over time, it’s best to
upload the first file in a non-protected format, and then all files after can be encrypted. If the
password changes over time, change it in the file transformers before uploading the file with the new
password.
XML Options
•
RSS Feed Format — If the file you’re uploading is in an RSS format, select this option.
•
RSS Custom Header Name — When you don’t want to use the standard RSS headers, enter the desired
headers in this field.
•
XML XSL Transformation — If you have XSL for the XML file that you’re uploading, enter it here. XSL is a
scripting language used to access XML elements. XSL is often used to reorganize the file’s structure.
You want your XSL script to reorganize the XML into a comma-delimited format, similar to that of a
CSV file. For more information on XSL functions and syntax, refer to this tutorial.
PDF Options
•
Pages — Insert the pages that you want to use in the file transformers. You can insert ranges separated
by a comma or all. For example, 1-3,5-7,9 or all.
125

=== PAGE 130 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Protected Workbook — If your PDF is password-protected, insert the password here, and then upload
the file again to process it.
•
Page Area — Insert the portion of the page to analyze, such as top, left, bottom, or right. For example,
269.875,12.75,561.
•
Use Spreadsheet Mode — To force the PDF to be extracted using spreadsheet-style extraction, select
this option.
•
Use Non-Spreadsheet Mode — To force the PDF to not be extracted using spreadsheet-style
extraction, select this option.
JSON Options
•
Use JSON Path — When uploading a JSON file that includes hierarchies, you can use a JSON path to
access the specific hierarchy that you want to upload. For an explanation on the JSON path, refer to
this documentation.
•
Use Keys as Values — The default behavior when uploading a JSON file is to use the keys as the
column names. The key values appear in the Source Fields section. When this option is selected, the
keys are counted as values and the columns receive a name from Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
Example:
JSON file -
{
"id": 1, 2
"name": [“A green door", “window frame”]
"price": [12.50, 10.50]
"tags": [“home", “home”]
}
Default Behavior
id name tags
1 a green door home
2 window frame home
With 'Use Keys as Values" Checked
Header 1 Header 2 Header 3
id 1 2
name a green door window frame
price 12.5 10.5
tags home home
•
Flatten Nested Objects — When uploading a JSON file with hierarchies, Marketing Cloud Intelligence
recognizes only the top hierarchy by default. If you want to process lower hierarchies, you must flatten
the file. When the Flatten Nested Objects option is selected, the platform flattens the nested objects
and creates additional columns for them. It’s similar to the action performed by JSON to CSV tools.
126

=== PAGE 131 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
(Currently, nested arrays aren’t supported.)
Apply Table Transformers in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The table transformer enables you to customize a table’s start and end rows and columns.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To apply transformers: Admin
Example:
This file is several tables positioned one under the other. In this case, when uploading the file, the
platform recognizes the first table. If you want to create a data stream based on one of the lower tables,
for example, the table titled “Spring 2016”, you must use the table transformer.
Another example:
The data in this file is spread across the columns. In this case, the platform sometimes recognizes the
table located in later columns, but this isn’t always the case. If you want to upload a table located in later
columns, use the table transformer and set the starting column manually.
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams, and then Data Streams List.
22.. Create a data stream or edit an existing one.
33.. In the Preview Source screen, click Edit Transformers. File transformers are added by default.
44.. In the Transformers in Use section, next to the Table transformer, click Edit. Table transformers are
added by default.
You can define the table’s boundaries by defining the start and end of the table (rows or columns) or by
using an expression.
•
To define the table’s start and end:
11..
In the Table Start At section, set the table’s start rows and columns. The starting row and column
can be set according to row and column number. The count starts at zero, meaning the first row of
the file is row number 0 and the first column is column number 0.
22..
If you want the platform to automatically recognize the start row or column, use the Auto settings.
If set to auto, the platform uses the regular algorithm to recognize the data placement.
33..
In the Table End At section, use one of these options:
•• - Find Automatically — Find the table’s end using the platform's algorithm.
•• - After Identifying Rows in the Table — Find the table’s end according to a set number of rows or
127

=== PAGE 132 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
columns.
•• - After Identifying Empty Rows — Find the table’s end according to the number of empty rows after
the last row.
•
To define the table’s start or end with an expression:
This is appropriate when the table’s location in the file changes from upload to upload. The relevant
variables for these expressions are:
- csv['row'] — Returns the array of each row’s values. You can specify the column by using [index]. For
example, csv['row'][0] returns the value of the first cell for each row, and csv['row'][1] returns the
value of the second cell for each row, etc.
- csv['prev_row'] — Returns the array of values of the previous row relative to csv['row'].
- csv['row_non_empty_cells'] — Returns the number of non-empty cells found in each csv['row'].
Apply Header Transformers in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
If you want to customize the header structure when headers aren’t available or span multiple rows, you
can use a header transformer. For example, if a file has a two-line header that must be combined into
one row.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To apply transformers: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams, and then Data Streams List.
22.. Create a data stream, or edit an existing one.
33.. In the Preview Source screen, click Edit Transformers. File transformers are added by default.
44.. In the Transformers in Use section, next to the Header transformer, click Edit.
55.. If your file doesn’t have headlines, and you don’t want the platform to choose the first row
automatically in the mapping process, select the File has no headers checkbox.
66.. When the dimension’s value is in a merged cell above the measurements, select the Merge multiline
headers checkbox. Typically, this scenario happens with conversion tags.
The Merge Multiline Headers process looks like:
In this example, you also must apply the Transpose Transformer.
77.. If you select the Merge multiline headers checkbox, and you want the platform to use the bottom
header when the top header column is empty, you can select the Top multiline header columns
aren’t empty checkbox.
88.. Click Done.
128

=== PAGE 133 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Total Rows Transformers in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the total rows transformer when you want to change the default behavior of Marketing Cloud
Intelligence to strip out “totals” rows from all files. For example, if a file has non-additive measurements,
and you want only the totals row mapped, use this transformer.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To apply transformers: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams, and then Data Streams List.
22.. Create a data stream, or edit an existing one.
33.. In the Preview Source screen, click Edit Transformers. File transformers are added by default.
44.. In the Transformers in Use section, next to the Total Rows transformer, click Edit.
55.. If you don’t want to upload the total rows from the file to the platform, select the Remove Total Rows
checkbox. This option is selected by default because total rows usually cause the file process to fail.
66.. Click Done.
Transpose Transformers in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use a transpose transformer when you want to reconstruct a flat-file format by translating columns of
data into rows. For example, if a file has three conversion types in three separate columns that you want
to aggregate into “total conversions,” they must be transposed into rows from columns. A column of data
in a flat-file corresponds to a field that could be mapped in the Marketing Cloud Intelligence data model.
So anytime you can streamline the number of potential mapped fields, you free up fields that can be
used for other dimensions or measurements. After transpose settings are set for a data stream, new files
uploaded to the data stream automatically inherit the predefined pattern that was specified upon initial
integration.
The transpose process is based on column indexes rather than names. For example, you select a column
named “Click Conversion” to be the first column, and its position in the first file is #10. In the next
uploaded file, the platform starts the transpose on column #10, no matter its name, which is helpful
when your column order changes between files.
If you must transpose dates, such as 01-01-2020 and 02-01-2020, use the Keep Header Value As Is
option when defining the transpose settings. This way, the year, which is a repeating word, isn’t separated
from the rest of the dates.
Note Don’t map non-transposed measurements in the same data stream as the transposed
measurements because their values are multiplied by the number of dimension values under the
transposed object. If you want to map non-transposed measurements, create a second data stream
using the same file. In the first transposed data stream, only include the measurements to be
transposed. Include all the other measurements in the second data stream.
129

=== PAGE 134 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Examples of Files in Need of Transpose
Example 1 — Headers in your file look like this:
Date Campaign Activity 1 Activity 1 Activity 2 Activity 2 Activity 3
Activity 3
View Click View Click View
Click
Through Through Through Through Through
Through
Conversion Conversion Conversion Conversion Conversion
Conversion
s s s s s
s
08-14-15 ABC_FY15 10 4 100 20 43 31
This file truly only has two measurements: View Through Conversions and Click Through Conversions.
Activity type is the only distinction between these two measurements, which results in six total columns.
Streamlining the number of columns results in some multiplier of the rows being consumed. In this case,
three activities are consolidated into two measurement columns, so you now have three rows of data, or
three times the number of rows that you started with.
After transpose:
Date Campaign Transposed Object View Through Click Through
(in this case it’s Conversions Conversions
Activity)
08-14-15 ABC_FY15 Activity 1 10 4
08-14-15 ABC_FY15 Activity 2 100 20
08-14-15 ABC_FY15 Activity 3 43 31
Example 2 — Headers in your file look like this:
Date Beverage January Sales February Sales March Sales
08-15-15 Lemonade 10 4 100
After transpose:
Date Beverage Transposed Object Sales
(Month)
08-15-15 Lemonade January 10
08-15-15 Lemonade February 4
08-15-15 Lemonade March 100
Before transpose:
130

=== PAGE 135 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Date Beverage January Sales February Sales March Sales clicks
15-Aug-15 Lemonade 10 4 100 5000
After transpose:
Date Beverage Transposed Object Sales clicks
(Month)
15-Aug-15 Lemonade January 10 5000
15-Aug-15 Lemonade February 4 5000
15-Aug-15 Lemonade March 100 5000
If your file includes transposed measurements and non-transposed measurements, map the file twice. In
one data stream, apply the transpose transformer, and then map the transposed measurements. In the
other data stream, don’t perform the transposed transformer, but map the non-transposed
measurements.
Apply Transpose Transformers
Apply a transpose transformer when you want to reconstruct a flat-file format by translating columns
of data into rows.
Apply Transpose Transformers
Apply a transpose transformer when you want to reconstruct a flat-file format by translating columns of
data into rows.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To apply transformers: Admin
If headers in your file look like this, and you want to transpose View Through Conversions and Click
Through Conversions into separate rows, this example shows how to apply a transpose transformer:
Date Campaign Activity 1 Activity 1 Activity 2 Activity 2 Activity 3
Activity 3
View Click View Click View
Click
Through Through Through Through Through
Through
Conversion Conversion Conversion Conversion Conversion
Conversion
s s s s s
s
08-14-15 ABC_FY15 10 4 100 20 43
31
131

=== PAGE 136 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams, and then Data Streams List.
22.. Create a data stream, or edit an existing one.
33.. In the Preview Source screen, click Edit Transformers.
44.. Transpose transformers aren’t added by default, so you must add them. In the Add Transformers area,
next to the Transpose Transformer, click the blue plus icon.
55.. Define the details:
Sets the column that you want to start the
transpose from, meaning the first column with
Start Column (1) the dimension and measurements together in
the header. In this case, set to Activity 1 View
Through Conversions.
Sets the column where you want to stop the
transpose. The column specified isn’t transposed.
When using this option, don’t map the non-
End Column (2) transposed measurements because doing so
causes the data to be duplicated. (This option
isn’t the default. In most files, it isn’t necessary to
stop the transpose process. )
Sets the number of columns relevant to the same
dimension value. Set the group size throughout
the file, otherwise you risk linking measurements
to the wrong dimension values. If some columns
Group Size (3)
are missing, you receive the "Transpose groups
are incomplete" error and can’t continue to the
mapping screen. In this case, set the group size
to 2 because you’re creating two groups.
If you want to transpose whole words, select this
option. If there are repeating words, they must
Whole words transpose (4) have a space before and after them. This option
doesn’t split words when creating the transpose
object dimension.
After locating the repeating words in the group,
the transpose creates the transpose object
dimension so that it includes the entire column
header without separating the measurement
section. When there are groups of more than
Keep header value as is (5)
one column, the value that appears as the
dimension is the first value in the group. This
option isn’t a default, and it’s used to transpose
columns of dates. This way, the year, which is a
repeating word, isn’t separated from the rest of
132

=== PAGE 137 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
the date. For example, if you want to transpose
dates 01-01-2020 and 01-02-2020, select this
checkbox.
66.. Click Done.
Here’s what the table looks like after transpose:
Apply Unnest Transformers in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The unnest transformer enables you to transform concatenated values into separate rows. The
measurement values linked to the nested row are duplicated to each new row. For example, If there are
three values, comma-separated, and one field must be broken out into individual rows of data, this
transformer creates individual rows for each value in that field.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To apply transformers: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams, and then Data Streams List.
22.. Create a data stream, or edit an existing one.
33.. In the Preview Source screen, click Edit Transformers.
44.. In the Add Transformers area, next to the Unnest Transformer, click the blue plus icon.
55.. In the Column field, select the column that you want to transform.
66.. In the Delimiter field, enter the delimiter that is used in the selected column data to separate
between the values to be unnested.
77.. In the Unnest Column Name field, enter the name of the new column to be created in the file. The
column specifies the number of values included in the nested row. If you want to divide the
measurement values between the new rows, set a function in the mapping process that divides the
measurement value by the number specified in this column.
88.. To indicate which column that you want to initiate the process, select the By Column Index checkbox.
(If necessary, you can apply multiple unnest transformers to the same column.)
99.. Click Done.
Example of Unnest
Original file:
Day Campaign Campaign media buy Impressions Clicks Media Cost
Name Key Key
3/5/2015 Camp1 8423517 mb1, 500 50 2500
133

=== PAGE 138 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
mb4;mb5
3/5/2015 Camp2 8423518 mb2, mb22, 900 90 9000
mb10;mb11
8423519 1000 1000 1000
3/6/2015 Camp3 mb3,mb6;m
b7,mb8;mb
9
Unnest transformer:
Result:
Day Campaign unnest1 Impression Clicks Media Cost
Campaign media buy
Key s
Name Key
Camp1 8423517 2 500 50
3/5/2015 mb1, mb4 2500
8423517 mb5 2 500 50 2500
3/5/2015 Camp1
8423518 2 900 90 9000
3/5/2015 Camp2 mb2,
mb22,
mb10
Camp2 8423518 mb11 2 900 90 9000
3/5/2015
Camp3 8423519 3 1000 1000 1000
3/6/2015 mb3,mb6
Camp3 8423519 3 1000 1000 1000
3/6/2015 mb7,mb8
Camp3 8423519 mb9 3 1000 1000 1000
3/6/2015
If you want to divide the measurement values by the number of new rows, add a function to the
measurement’s mapping. For example, for Impressions, use this formula:
csv['Impressions']/csv['unnest 1']
You can further separate the values from the previous file by adding a second unnest transformer:
Result:
134

=== PAGE 139 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Day Campaig media unnest1 unnest2 Impressi Clicks
Campaig Media
n Key buy Key ons
n Name Cost
Camp1 8423517 mb1 2 2 500 50 2500
3/5/
2015
mb4 2 2 500 50 2500
3/5/ Camp1 8423517
2015
Camp1 8423517 mb5 2 1 500 50 2500
3/5/
2015
Camp2 8423518 mb2 2 3 900 90 9000
3/5/
2015
Camp2 8423518 mb22 2 3 900 90 9000
3/5/
2015
Camp2 8423518 mb10 2 3 900 90 9000
3/5/
2015
Camp2 8423518 mb11 2 1 900 90 9000
3/5/
2015
Camp3 8423519 mb3 3 2 1000 1000 1000
3/6/
2015
Camp3 8423519 mb6 3 2 1000 1000 1000
3/6/
2015
Camp3 8423519 mb7 3 2 1000 1000 1000
3/6/
2015
3/6/ Camp3 8423519 mb8 3 2 1000 1000 1000
2015
3/6/ Camp3 8423519 mb9 3 1 1000 1000 1000
2015
To divide the measurement’s values, you must add the unnest2 column to the formula, for example, for
Impressions: csv['Impressions']/(csv['unnest1']*csv['unnest2'] )
135

=== PAGE 140 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Apply Pivot Transformers in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The pivot transformer can transform values from selected columns into new individual columns, which
then contain aggregated values for the measurements.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To apply transformers: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams, and then Data Streams List.
22.. Create a data stream, or edit an existing one.
33.. In the Preview Source screen, click Edit Transformers.
44.. In the Add Transformers area, next to the Pivot Transformer, click the blue plus icon.
55.. In the Pivot Column field, select the column that you want to serve as the X. You can only select one
column.
66.. In the Value Column field, select the column that you want to serve as the Y. You can only select one
column.
77.. Click Done.
Example
Original file:
Day Measurement Value
3/5/2017 Media Cost $43.50
Impressions 300
3/5/2017
4/5/2017 Media Cost $37.20
260
4/5/2017 Impressions
5/5/2017 Media Cost $52.00
Impressions 400
5/5/2017
The pivot transformer applied to the file:
The result:
136

=== PAGE 141 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Impressions
Day Media Cost
300
3/5/2017 $43.50
260
4/5/2017 $37.20
400
5/5/2017 $52.00
Apply PGP/GPG Decryptor Transformers in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can use the PGP/GPG transformer when you want to decrypt uploaded encrypted files with a PGP/
GPG decrypting tool.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To apply transformers: Admin
For more details about PGP, see https://www.techtarget.com/searchsecurity/definition/Pretty-Good-
Privacy. To enable this transformer, you need a passphrase and PGP/GPG private key.
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams, and then Data Streams List.
22.. Create a data stream, or edit an existing one.
33.. In the Preview Source screen, click Edit Transformers.
44.. In the Add Transformers area, next to the PGP/GPG Transformer, click the blue plus icon.
55.. (Optional) In the Passphrase field, if you defined a passphrase to encrypt the file or the data on top of
an existing PGP key pair, enter it here.
66.. (Optional) In the Private Key Password field, if you defined a password for the private key, enter it
here.
77.. In the PGP/GPG Private Key field, enter the private key.
88.. The Automatically remove the PGP/GPG file extension after decryption checkbox is selected by
default.
99.. Click Done.
Apply Data Transformer in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Select the data transformer checkbox to manipulate actual data contained in the files you upload.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To apply transformers: Admin
137

=== PAGE 142 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Such as transforming currency data to include a zero before the decimal point. For example: .5 (½)
appears as 5 and is calculated as a whole number instead of 0.5. The Data transformer adds the
necessary zeros to currency data.
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, expand Data Streams, and then expand Data Streams List.
22.. Create a data stream, or edit an existing one.
33.. In the Preview Source screen, click Edit Transformers.
44.. In the Add Transformers section, next to Data, click the plus icon.
55.. Select the checkbox and click Done.
Mapping Your Source Data in TotalConnect
Mapping connects the source fields in your uploaded file to the corresponding Marketing Cloud
Intelligence fields. Marketing Cloud Intelligence uses machine learning algorithms to map your data. The
mapping process is similar regardless of which method you use to upload your data, with some minor
differences. If you’re using TotalConnect, Intelligence identifies the most suitable data stream type
according to your data and offers an initial mapping suggestion.
For more information about mapping, see Mapping Your Source Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Troubleshoot Total Connect Data Streams
Errors can occur that prevent data streams from being created or processed. You can view errors using
the Log button. The log contains important technical information and can help you diagnose issues.
The log for TotalConnect data streams stores all files that entered the data stream, and each file has its
own secondary log.
Here are some common errors that occur and possible solutions:
Error: MISSING_FIELD "A mandatory field is missing in the uploaded file"
A mandatory field is missing in your data stream. Two scenarios can cause the Missing Field error.
•
A column is missing from the file.
•
A column header has been renamed or misspelled.
Confirm the Error:
•
Download the file causing an error from the data stream’s log and compare mapped fields in the data
stream to the downloaded file fields. If fields are missing, contact an admin who is familiar with the
files.
•
Look for header names that are different from the previous files that were processed without the error.
Possible Solution:
138

=== PAGE 143 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Apply a mapping formula using the COALESCE function to accommodate all header names—both past
and current versions.
•
Upload the file to a new data stream. Issues concerning the headers aren’t always visible in the original
file—uploading the file to the platform in a separate data stream allows you to see how the platform
processes the file.
Error: DATE_FORMAT_IS_INVALID "Invalid date format"
Dates are mandatory for uploading measurement data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence. An invalid date
format causes the data stream to fail. Two scenarios can cause an Invalid Date Format error.
•
The date field is being read as a Text and not as Date.
•
Dates are formatted differently than in previous files.
Possible Solution:
•
Apply a PARSEDATE function to the Day field in the mapping, including all possible variations of the
date formats in an ‘if’ statement.
•
Revert the file back to its original settings—the original file extension or original date format. If you
can’t revert the file, contact your account executive for assistance.
Error: INVALID_DATE_RANGE "Invalid date range"
An invalid date range error occurs when the date range of a file includes a large number of years. The
platform recognizes that the date range is unreasonable and doesn’t upload the file. In Marketing Cloud
Intelligence you can only process data within a 15-year time period. Any data older than 15 years results
in an invalid date range error.
Possible Solution:
•
Reduce the date range to include data within the last 15 years only.
•
A large date range error can also result from a date format error—it’s recommended to also check the
date format in the failed streams.
Error: FORMULA_EVALUATION_FAILED "Formula evaluation failed"
A formula that doesn’t function as intended can cause a data stream to fail. The scenario that causes the
Formula Evaluation Failed error:
•
The formula that is applied to the data stream can’t run on all the data it’s applied to. For example,
some of the data in the formula divides in a null value.
Confirm the Error:
•
Check the failed jobs log and determine which formula is failing.
•
Check the raw data files and see what data the failed formula is applied to.
139

=== PAGE 144 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Possible Solution:
•
Edit the formula and reprocess the files.
Error: MAPPING_VALIDATION/Mapping Warnings
A mapping validation or mapping warning highlights specific issues with the relationships between the
fields in the uploaded file. For example, there are multiple campaign name values associated with the
same campaign key. Mapping validation and Mapping warning can cause aggregation issues.
Possible Solutions:
•
Every mapped attribute field has to have its key field mapped as well. For example, if you map the
Social Post Domain field, Social Post Key must be mapped as well. Check the failed jobs in the logs
and determine which dimension is problematic.
•
Confirm that entities that are mapped in a one-to-many relationship. For example, Campaign and
Media Buy— the 'one' field, in this case campaign, has only one value corresponding to the 'many' field
(Media Buy). You can check this using a pivot table:
•
Confirm that each entity, for example Media Buy Key, has only one value under each attribute field—for
example Media Buy Size. In the image you can see that there are two attributes associated with the
entity, causing a MAPPING_VALIDATION or Mapping Warnings error.
•
In datasets that only include Many to Many relationships, you can create a concatenation in the
mapping to concatenate several fields to create a viable key.
Error: Security Error: invalid value "...path may contain malicious code"
The invalid value error occurs when a page path is identified as code—and for security reasons it’s
blocked.
Possible solution:
•
The path isn’t malicious code. You can prevent it from being blocked by using this formula:
STRIP_HTML(csv['page_path']) in page path and its subcategories (Page Path Level 1 and 2).
•
After applying the formula, reprocess the failed days.
Error: The formulas contain a cyclic reference of Marketing Cloud
Intelligence fields: cyclic reference detected
A cyclic formula reference error commonly occurs when using VLOOKUP functions and the wrong type of
field is used.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence references these field types in formulas:
140

=== PAGE 145 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
CSV—Fields in the uploaded file. Transformers affect these values, but formulas don’t.
•
Dat—A data stream is manipulating a field in the "transformed" file. Formula manipulation affects these
values.
•
Data Model fields (appears as [Media_Buy_Name])—Fields in the Marketing Cloud Intelligence
database that contain values loaded by existing data streams to the platform.
When using VLOOKUP it’s common to search and retrieve values from fields uploaded by other data
streams in the workspace. Data Model fields with square brackets are used to retrieve the values allowing
you to access values that exist in the Marketing Cloud Intelligence database.
Possible Solution:
•
Make sure that the VLOOKUP formula uses the right type of fields in the second and third parameters,
searchDimension, and returnDimension.
Error: The workspace exceeded total rows or The account exceeded total
rows
When a workspace or account exceeds its total rows limit, data streams can’t process and fail. Every
account has a limited number of rows. This number is divided between the account's workspaces. The
error in question appears when either the account or one of its workspaces has reached their row limit.
When an account reaches its row limit, 'The account exceeded total rows' error appears.
When a workspace reaches its row limit, 'The workspace exceeded total rows' appears.
Confirm the Error:
•
Admins can track the row usage from the account or workspace settings under Data Row Usage.
Possible Solution:
•
Delete data from the workspace.
Note Changes can take up to 30 minutes to apply. To increase the account or workspace row
limit, contact your account executive.
Problem: Zero rows are uploaded when a new file is uploaded.
To see the number of rows added in the last update:
•
On the Connect & Mix tab, expand Data Streams, and then click Data Stream List.
•
In the Last # Of Rows Added column, you can see the number of rows that were added.
If 0 rows were added, check to see if a measurement header is missing, or if it appears under a different
name in the recent file. These issues can result in rows not being uploaded.
141

=== PAGE 146 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Possible Solution:
•
Apply a mapping formula using the COALESCE function to accommodate all header names for both
past and current versions.
•
Upload the file to a new data stream. Sometimes, issues related to headers aren’t visible in the original
file. Uploading the file to the platform in a separate data stream allows you to see how the platform
processes the file.
Problem: The log displays "NO FILE" under the 'File' column and "No files
were retrieved" under 'Reason'
This situation occurs when the data stream's retrieval settings are enabled, but no new files are available
during the retrieval. This message means that the data stream ran, but no new data was present.
Data upload limits apply to TotalConnect data streams. This table lists the limits.
File Type File Size Row Limits
Direct Upload 40 MB 15 Million Rows
Email 30 MB 15 Million Rows
Retrieval 500 GB 15 Million Rows
Additional Notes:
•
Up to 15 jobs can be processed simultaneously in each workspace. All other jobs that start at the same
time are added to a queue and given a Pending status until they’re processed.
•
When creating a scheduled report in order to feed a data stream, the associated email address can be
entered in the To, CC, or BCC fields.
Creating Data Streams with API Connectors in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
API connectors enable you to easily connect data sources such as Google Ads or Facebook to Marketing
Cloud Intelligence. When you connect an API connector, an API data stream is created that
automatically maps the data fields the vendor provides to the Marketing Cloud Intelligence data model,
allowing you to access your information.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence offers various API connectors. Connecting API connectors to Intelligence is
a dynamic process that changes according to the API connector you use. As a result, not all fields are
available for each connector.
Create a Data Stream with an API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use an API connector to create an API data stream. You can choose from one of thousands of API
connectors, or you can go to the Marketplace and install connectors.
Update Data in API Data Streams in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
142

=== PAGE 147 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You have two options to update the data in an API data stream after it’s been created: Re-process and
Re-run.
Data Source Authentication in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Data Source Authentication connects you to various API connectors securely and easily.
Troubleshoot API Data Streams in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Errors can occur that prevent API data streams from being created or processed. For example, it’s
possible you used invalid credentials and processing failed. You can view errors using the Log button.
The log contains important technical information and can help you diagnose issues.
Use API Connectors to Connect Your Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Marketing Cloud Intelligence offers thousands of API connectors that you can use to connect to
Intelligence. The API connectors vary from marketing vendors to technical vendors. You can also
download additional connectors via the Marketplace.
Technical Vendors in Intelligence
Intelligence supports these technical vendors:
Create a Data Stream with an API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use an API connector to create an API data stream. You can choose from one of thousands of API
connectors, or you can go to the Marketplace and install connectors.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a data stream: Admin
11.. Navigate to the Connect & Mix tab.
22.. Expand Data Streams, and then expand Data Streams List.
33.. Click Add New.
44.. In the Search bar, enter the name of the connector you’re connecting to. For example, enter Facebook
Ads.
The settings change according to the API connector, so not all fields are available.
••
Name the data stream (1).
••
Within Credentials (2), select the account that you want to pull data from, or to add your API
credentials, click Add new. Usually, this is a valid username and password. However, some vendors
require more information, such as an API token. Check with each vendor to confirm what their API
requirements are.
••
After you add your credentials, choose the entity that you want to pull data from (3). This entity can
appear under different names in different API connectors, such as Profile, Publisher, or Account.
With some connectors, you can further specify the segment that you want to pull data from, such as
Advertiser, Segment, or Queries.
••
In Initial Data Fetch, (4), select the initial date range that you want to retrieve data from. You can
143

=== PAGE 148 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
only process data from the last 180 days. If you want to process older data, contact support.
••
In Extended Properties (5), if available, retrieve additional data on the source platform. These
options change from one connector to another.
55.. To view how the data was mapped, click Mapping. For more information about mapping, see
Mapping.
66.. To apply advanced settings to the data stream, click Advanced. For more information about advanced
settings, see Advanced Settings.
77.. To create the data stream, click Create. After you create the data stream, it appears in the Data
Streams List, and it can be used throughout the platform.
Update Data in API Data Streams in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You have two options to update the data in an API data stream after it’s been created: Re-process and Re-
run.
Re-process Data in API Data Streams
Re-process is a common action that updates the data within a selected data stream. The most popular
use for Re-process is when a dataset changes on the platform’s side, such as Facebook, and the user
wants to pull the update back to Marketing Cloud Intelligence. This action proactively pulls the new
data instead of waiting for a scheduled update to take place (if applicable).
Re-run Data in API Data Streams
Re-run doesn’t initiate the retrieval of new data into the data stream, it reruns the data stream’s
existing data.
Re-process Data in API Data Streams
Re-process is a common action that updates the data within a selected data stream. The most popular
use for Re-process is when a dataset changes on the platform’s side, such as Facebook, and the user
wants to pull the update back to Marketing Cloud Intelligence. This action proactively pulls the new data
instead of waiting for a scheduled update to take place (if applicable).
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To edit a data stream: Admin
11.. Navigate to the Connect & Mix tab.
22.. Expand Data Streams, and then expand Data Streams List.
33.. Select the data stream from the list, and from the top toolbar, click Process to open the Process Data
dialog.
44.. Select the relevant date ranges for the data that you’re reprocessing.
55.. To process data for days that the data steam failed, select Process Data Stream Failed Days.
66.. Click Process. New data is retrieved for the specified date range, including failed retrievals.
144

=== PAGE 149 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Re-run Data in API Data Streams
Re-run doesn’t initiate the retrieval of new data into the data stream, it reruns the data stream’s existing
data.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To edit a data stream: Admin
11.. Navigate to the Connect & Mix tab.
22.. Expand Data Streams, and then expand Data Streams List.
33.. Select the data stream that you want to rerun, and from the top toolbar, click Log.
44.. Select the specific data stream job(s) that you want to re-run, and click Re-run.
The data stream job(s) are re-run, and the existing data contained in them is updated according to any
new changes made to it.
Data Source Authentication in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Data Source Authentication connects you to various API connectors securely and easily.
If you’re connecting your data via an API connector and you enter your credentials, a data source
authentication is created automatically. You can also create one manually in the Connect & Mix tab.
Every time you connect to this API connector, the system remembers you so you don’t have to
authenticate over and over.
Create a Data Source Authentication in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a data source authentication manually via the Connect & Mix tab so you can easily connect to
different API connectors. During this process you can decide who has access to this authentication
and who can create data streams with it.
Create a Data Source Authentication in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a data source authentication manually via the Connect & Mix tab so you can easily connect to
different API connectors. During this process you can decide who has access to this authentication and
who can create data streams with it.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a data source authentication: Admin
145

=== PAGE 150 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, click Data Streams and then Data Source Authentication.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. From the Add Authentication dropdown, select the name of the API connector you’re authenticating.
44.. Click Create.
55.. Enter the required details and then save your details.
66.. Select who can view and use your credentials:
Public Everyone can see and use these credentials.
Shared Only specific users can access these credentials.
Only the creator of this data source
Private authentication can create and modify data
streams with these credentials.
77.. If you selected Shared, mark the email addresses of users who can access and share these credentials.
88.. Select the level at which you want to share the API credentials, either account or workspace level.
99.. Save your work.
Troubleshoot API Data Streams in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Errors can occur that prevent API data streams from being created or processed. For example, it’s
possible you used invalid credentials and processing failed. You can view errors using the Log button. The
log contains important technical information and can help you diagnose issues.
The log for API Connections doesn’t store individual files, but each line of the log analyzes each time the
API was called to process a given set of dates. The same technical information used to determine why
the call failed is available via the Show More option.
Here are some common errors that occur and possible solutions:
Error: INVALID_CREDENTIALS "Invalid Credentials"
Credentials are the security tokens most APIs use to authenticate access to the source systems. Two
scenarios can cause the Invalid Credentials error:
•
The security token is expired and requires re-authentication.
•
The credentials have changed password values.
Possible Solution:
The fix is the same for both scenarios.
11.. Navigate to the Connect & Mix tab.
22.. Expand Data Streams, and then click Data Source Authentication.
33.. Select the credentials that are being used in the failed API stream, and click Refresh Token, and then
enter your credentials.
146

=== PAGE 151 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Error: ‘Provider Internal Error’
As the name indicates, this is an error on the provider’s side. This error can be due to any number of
reasons.
Possible Solution:
Because this is a provider error, Marketing Cloud Intelligence support can’t do anything to resolve the
issue. Typically, waiting a few minutes and processing the data stream’s failed date ranges resolves the
issue. Sometimes you see some dates process successfully and other dates fail again. In this case, wait an
additional 5–10 minutes, and then process the remaining failed days.
Error: Security Error: invalid value "...path may contain malicious code"
This error occurs when a page path is identified as code and blocked for security reasons.
Possible Solution:
Because this isn’t malicious code, you can prevent it from being blocked by using this formula:
STRIP_HTML(csv['page_path']) . After applying the formula, reprocess the failed days.
Error: FORMULA_EVALUATION_FAILED "Formula evaluation failed"
This error occurs when a formula applied to the data stream can’t run on all the data it’s applied to.
Possible Solution:
Edit the formula, and try reprocessing the data stream again.
Error: The workspace exceeded total rows or The Account exceeded total
rows
Every account has a limit to the amount of rows it can use. This amount is divided between the account’s
workspaces. The error in question appears when the account or one of its workspaces reaches its row
limit. When the account reaches its row limit first, the ”The account exceeded total rows” error appears.
When the workspace reaches its row limit first, the ”The workspace exceeded total rows” appears. After a
row limit is reached, data streams fail and data isn’t uploaded to the workspace or account. Admins can
track the row usage under the Settings menu in the Account/Workspace Usage Data section.
Possible Solutions:
•
Delete data from the workspace using the delete data feature. Changes can take up to 30 minutes to
apply.
•
To increase the account/workspace’s row limit, contact your Account Manager. Changes in the row
limit can take up to 30 minutes to apply.
147

=== PAGE 152 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Error: INVALID_DATE_RANGE "Invalid date range"
This error occurs when the date range of a file includes a large number of years. The platform recognizes
that the date range is unreasonable and doesn’t upload the file. Sometimes a wide date range is the
result of a problem with the date format. When this error occurs, it’s advisable to check the date format
in the failed data streams.
•
Only dates within 15 years of the current year can be processed. Anything beyond this period results in
the data stream failing with the “Invalid date range” error.
•
Fifteen jobs can be processed simultaneously per workspace. All other jobs starting at the same time
are added to a queue and set to Pending until processed.
Error: Rate Limit Exceeded
This error occurs when the rate limits defined on the API provider's side are exceeded. Please note that
this is a limitation on the provider's end and the Marketing Cloud Intelligence support team can’t do
much to overcome this error.
Rate Limits are defined on the provider's side and vary from API to API - every API has different
limitations. In addition to this, the limitation might be specific to your credentials that are linked to the
provider in question.
They can also vary in type - for example, there might be a Daily Limit on how many requests your account
can make to the provider for a given day. The provider may limit the number of requests from a specific
account, so it only allows a few to pass successfully while others are rejected due to Rate Limits.
These limitations may be related to the specific credentials used to access the Provider's Database (the
credentials used inside the API stream).
Possible Solution
It’s recommended you wait a day, and then process the data streams with failed jobs the next day. Rate
limits are typically reset each day.
Use API Connectors to Connect Your Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Marketing Cloud Intelligence offers thousands of API connectors that you can use to connect to
Intelligence. The API connectors vary from marketing vendors to technical vendors. You can also
download additional connectors via the Marketplace.
Adform API Connector
The Adform API connector retrieves Leads data. The data is aggregated and can only be seen at the
campaign level.
Adglow API Connector
Adglow is a Social Media Advertising Campaign Management Tool.
148

=== PAGE 153 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Adjust API Connector
Adjust provides analytics, measurement, and fraud prevention solutions for mobile app marketers
worldwide.
Adobe Analytics API Connector
Adobe Analytics is a Web Analytics service that tracks and reports website traffic and interaction.
Adobe Analytics Custom API Connector
The Adobe Analytics Custom API Connector allows you to retrieve a custom set of Measurements and
Dimensions from the Adobe Analytics API into Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
Adobe Analytics Custom 2.0 API Connector
The Adobe Analytics 2.0 Custom API Connector integrates with the latest Adobe Analytics 2.0 API
endpoints. The new custom connector allows for simplified query methods and increased capacity for
multiple breakdown reports making it the optimal choice for high volume use cases.
Adobe Analytics Data Warehouse API Connector
Adobe Analytics is a Web Analytics service that tracks and reports website traffic and interaction.
Adocean Gemius API Connector
Adocean is an Ad Server platform that offers advertising space to several Ad Providers at the same
time, allowing the same space to be used for direct sales. This enables the automatic optimization of
revenue from a single advertising space.
Adroll API Connector
AdRoll is an Ecommerce Growth Platform helping brands grow revenue through marketing and ads.
Adthena API Connector
Adthena provides search competitive data.
Affiliate Future API Connector
Affiliate Future provides advertisers with an effective marketing solution through its affiliate network
and tools.
AirPush API Connector
Airpush is a mobile ad network that displays data on mobile advertising.
Amazon Advertising API Connector
This API connector retrieves data for Amazon Campaign Types Sponsored Products and Headline
Search Ads
Amazon Attribution API Connector
Amazon Attribution is a platform that gives marketers insights into how their non-Amazon marketing
channels across search, social, video, and display impact shopping activity and sales performance on
Amazon.
Amazon Vendor Brand Analytics API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
First-party sellers, such as manufacturers and distributors, use the Amazon Vendor Central web
interface for selling products directly to Amazon. Connecting to the Amazon Vendor Brand Analytics
API gives you information about sales and traffic, consumer behavior, and operations.
Amazon DSP API Connector
Amazon DSP is a demand-side platform that enables advertisers to programmatically buy display,
video, and audio ads both on and off Amazon.
Amazon Seller Central API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
149

=== PAGE 154 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Amazon Seller Central is a web interface used by brands and merchants to market and sell their
products directly to Amazon customers.
Amazon Vendor Central Inventory API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Amazon Vendor Central Inventory is a web interface used by first-party sellers, such as direct
manufacturers and distributors, for selling products directly to Amazon.
Account Analytics API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
With the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Account Analytics connector, you can monitor engagement,
page views, audit changes, and entity creation logs. You can use this data to create customized views,
add dynamic dashboards, and pull actionable reports. The connector includes logs for both
unpublished and published pages.
AOL One Video API Connector
The ONE by AOL API connector retrieves data related to Video Ads that are displayed on mobile
devices.
AppNexus Advertiser API Connector
AppNexus is a global internet technology company that operates an independent marketplace for
digital advertising, and enterprise technology for buyers and sellers of digital ads. AppNexus Advertiser
is used to retrieve performance, revenue, and profit data across a selected advertiser's creatives and
campaigns.
AppNexus Network API Connector
AppNexus is a global internet technology company that operates an independent marketplace for
digital advertising, and enterprise technology for buyers and sellers of digital ads. AppNexus Network
is used to retrieve high-level performance data for a selected member of the AppNexus Network.
AppNexus Reports API Connector
AppNexus is a global internet technology company that operates an independent marketplace for
digital advertising, and enterprise technology for buyers and sellers of digital ads. AppNexus for
Reports is used to retrieve a selection of AppNexus reports.
Apple News Publisher API Connector
Apple News Publisher places ads in Channels in the Apple News App on iPhone and iPad.
Apple Search Ads API Connector
The Apple Search Ads API retrieves data related to Search Campaigns advertised on Apple App Store.
By using this API, you’ll be able to retrieve standard Display data. The Dimensions and Measurements
that are pulled through the API match the data that’s displayed on each of the Ad Groups views within
the Apple Search UI.
AppsFlyer API Connector
The AppsFlyer API connector retrieves App Analytics data. Through our API, you can retrieve the data
that’s available in the Geo Daily Report in the AppsFlyer Reports section. The report includes
Campaigns data, broken down by Countries and Media Sources.
Automation Studio for Exporting Data from Marketing Cloud
When you’re unable to use the Marketing Cloud Intelligence API to grab granular data or a specific
dimension and then connect that data to a Granular Data Center, try Automation Studio. With
Automation Studio (a Marketing Cloud app) you can extract the granularity of data you need so you
can analyze your data with ease.
150

=== PAGE 155 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
AWIN API Connector
AWIN is a global affiliate marketing network that delivers marketing solutions for advertisers, agencies,
and publishers around the world.
Baidu API Connector
Baidu, Inc. operates as an Internet Search Provider, which offers internet search solutions and online
marketing solutions.
Basis by Centro API Connector
Basis by Centro is a provider of enterprise software for digital advertising organizations. Its technology
platform, Basis, is the first of its kind SaaS advertising solution unifying programmatic and direct media
buying, along with workflow automation, cross-channel campaign planning, universal reporting, and
business intelligence.
Bing Ads API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use Bing Ads to track and manage your pay-per-click advertising Bing and Yahoo! search engines. Bing
Ads is a search channel connector, the data stream types are Ads, Conversion Tag, Conversion Tag with
Keywords, and Search Keywords. The data lagging is one day. Bing Ads data is reported in the UTC
timezone.
Brandwatch API Connector
Brandwatch is a Social Media Monitoring Tool that allows your business to analyze and use business
conversations from across the social web.
BrightEdge API Connector
BrightEdge is an SEO and content performance marketing platform, helping customers generate more
organic traffic.
CallRail API Connector
CallRail is a call tracking platform.
Call Tracking Metrics API Connector
All fields retrieved are unmapped by default. When you save the data stream you’ll be directed to the
mapping screen. Choose the relevant data stream type under the Extended Properties section.
Comscore API Connector
Comscore provides a comprehensive, consistent, and unique view of media consumption across
media and screens to accurately capture modern media consumption
Convertr API Connector
Convertr is a Customer Acquisition Management Platform helping publishers, brands, and agencies
improve their leads and the business model that generates them.
Coosto API Connector
Coosto is a social media monitoring tool.
Crimson Hexigon API Connector
Crimson Hexigon is a social listening platform.
Criteo For Marketers API Connector
This API Connector is for Criteo's Marketers Platform.
Data 360 CI Connector
Data 360 allows you to unify all your data - from anywhere - for a complete view of your customers.
The Data 360 API connector allows you to pull either your calculated insights from Data 360 or use
151

=== PAGE 156 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Marketing Cloud Intelligence predefined insights in order to get advanced insights with a click of a
button.
DoubleVerify API Connector
Use the DoubleVerify API Connector to pull your DoubleVerify measurements and verification data.
Facebook Ads API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Facebook Ads is a platform on which users can purchase and manage advertising space on Facebook.
Facebook Attribution API Connector
Facebook Attribution tool, a platform that gives marketers a better picture of their clients’ journey by
measuring performance across publishers, channels, devices and conversions.
Facebook Ads Custom API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the Facebook Ads Custom API connector to retrieve a custom set of measurements and
dimensions from the Facebook Ads API into Marketing Cloud Intelligence. The Facebook Ads Custom
API connector facilitates the retrieval of unique measurements, such as Reach. These measurements
cannot be aggregated. This custom connector requires manual setup. The Facebook ads custom is a
display channel connector, the data stream type is ads, conversion tag, and generic. The data lagging is
one day.
Facebook Page Insights API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use Facebook Page Insights to track user interaction on your Facebook Fan Page. Facebook Insights is
seen by all the Admins of your page to help you track the number of active users so you can better
understand your page performance. Facebook Page Insights is an organic social channel connector,
the data stream type is social objects, and the data lagging is three days.
Facebook Post Insights API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the Facebook post insight connector to understand data on how users engage with your Facebook
post so you can make informed decisions on the content you post. Facebook post insights is social
channel connector, the data stream type and there’s no data lagging. Facebook post insights pulls data
from Graph API, and Insights.
Facebook Public (Competitive) API Connector
The Facebook Public Connector retrieves public data such as page likes, post reactions etc.
Flashtalking API Connector
The Flashtalking API connector.
Gartner API Connector
Gartner is a global research and advisory firm providing information, advice, and tools for leaders in IT,
finance, HR, customer service and support, communications, legal and compliance, marketing, sales,
and supply chain functions.
Google Ads API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the Google Ads API connector to retrieve a predefined set of dimensions and measurements from
the Google Ads API. Google Ads is a display and search channel connector. The data stream type is
Ads, and the data lagging is one day.
Google Ads Custom API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the Google Ads Custom API connector to retrieve a custom set of measurements and dimensions.
You can also use the Google Ads Custom connector when creating a Granular Data Center. Google Ads
Custom is a display and search channel connector, and the data lagging is one day.
152

=== PAGE 157 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Google Analytics API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Google Analytics is a web analytics service offered by Google that tracks and reports website traffic.
Google Analytics is a web analytics channel connector, the data stream type is web analytics, and the
data lag is one day.
Google Analytics Custom API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the Google Analytics Custom API connector to retrieve custom dimensions and metrics. Use
custom dimensions to collect and analyze data that Google Analytics doesn’t automatically track. You
can combine Analytics data with non-Analytics data using the custom connector. Google Analytics
Custom is a web analytics channel connector, and the data lagging is one day.
Google Ads Manager API Connector
Google Ad Manager, formerly known as DoubleClick for Publishers (DFP).
Google Ads Manager Custom API Connector
Google Ad Manager Custom, formerly known as DoubleClick for Publishers (DFP). Use the Google Ad
Manager custom API connector to create the dimension and metric combinations that work best for
your use cases. With the custom connector you can analyze your custom data that isn’t available in the
standard connector.
Google Analytics Attribution API Connector
The Google Analytics Attribution tool is available on the Google Analytics platform. It enables a view of
the conversion path a client goes through before the conversion takes place. Tracking starting in the
client's first interest until the conversion takes place, across different marketing channels.
Google Campaign Manager API Connector
Google Campaign Manager is a web-based ad management system for advertisers and agencies,
which helps you manage digital campaigns across websites and mobile.
Google Campaign Manager Custom API Connector
Google Campaign Manager Custom, is a web-based ad management system for advertisers and
agencies, which helps you manage digital campaigns across websites and mobile platforms.
Google Display and Video 360 API Connector
Google Display & Video 360 is a Demand-Side-Platform (DSP) providing global Display Media Buying
across Ad Exchanges. Google Display & Video 360 (DV360) was formerly known as DoubleClick Bid
Manager (DBM).
Google Display and Video 360 TrueView API Connector
TrueView line items allow you to create video campaigns with a range of formats to engage customers
on YouTube and across the web on partner sites and apps.
Google My Business API Connector
The Google My Business API connector retrieves data related to listings of businesses that are
advertised on Google.
Google Search Console API Connector
Google Search Console is a free service offered by Google that helps you monitor, maintain, and
troubleshoot your site's presence in Google Search results.
Has Offers by Tune API Connector
Has Offers by Tune is a Performance Marketing Platform and an Affiliate Network.
Hubspot API Connector
153

=== PAGE 158 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Hubspot is a marketing automation tool, Marketing Cloud Intelligence currently supports only Email
Marketing data.
Innovid API Connector
Innovid API Connector
Interaction Studio API Connector
Use the Interaction Studio API connector to explore and pull personalization data from your
Marketing Cloud Personalization (formerly Interaction Studio) Data Warehouse.
Instagram by Facebook Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The Instagram by Facebook API connector retrieves lifetime post data from Instagram using
Facebook’s graph API. This connector pulls a larger variety of measurements, such as organic
impressions. Instagram by Facebook is a social channel connector, the data stream type is social
objects, and there’s no data lag.
Instagram Public API Connector
The Instagram Public (competitive) API allows you to get basic metadata and metrics for other
Instagram Business Accounts.
Integral Ad Science API Connector
IAS is an Ad Verification Vendor displaying Viewability, Ad Safety, and Ad Fraud data.
Integrate API Connector
Integrate is a Demand Generation Marketing Orchestration Software that provides tools for
management and scalability of demand marketing efforts
Kenshoo API Connector
Kenshoo provides digital marketing solutions in Search, Social, and Display.
Kochava API Connector
Kochava is a mobile app marketing tracker.
Line Ads API Connector
LINE Ads is a performance-based ad platform for services related to the LINE chat app that enables
you to retrieve delivery data from the platform.
LinkedIn Ads API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the LinkedIn Ads API connector to retrieve LinkedIn ad and conversion data. LinkedIn Ads is a
display channel, the data stream type is ads, and conversions, and the data lagging is one day.
LinkedIn Company Page API Connector
LinkedIn Company Page API Connector.
MailChimp API Connector
MailChimp API Connector.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Connector for B2C Commerce
Use the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Connector for B2C Commerce to pull aggregated orders or
product-level data from your B2C Commerce site. B2C Commerce gathers data from your realm and
configures it into logical datasets called dashboards.
Moat API Connector
A digital advertisement search engine. Measures ad viewability on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube.
Marketing Cloud (Granular) API Connector
154

=== PAGE 159 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The Salesforce Marketing Cloud platform delivers relevant, personalized journeys across channels and
devices, enabling marketers to deliver the right message at the right time throughout all phases of the
relationship. The Marketing Cloud Granular (Standard) connector enables you to pull in all data from
Email Studio, Mobile Studio, and Journey Builder into a Granular Data Center.
Marketo API Connector
Marketing automation platform.
MediaMath API Connector
MediaMath is a Demand-Side Platform (DSP) that provides advertisers and marketers with tools to buy
ads online through a single interface.
MOZ API Connector
MOZ API is a Search Engine Optimization tool, which among other things, provides different
competitive views. By using our API, you’re able to select Domains, and retrieve a variety of
Measurements related to them.
Naver API Connector
Naver is a Korean search engine, it’s also frequently referred to as 'the Google of South Korea'. This
integration allows you to retrieve your search and delivery data from the platform.
NetBase API Connector
Netbase is a Social Listening Platform. They develop Natural Language Processing technology that is
used to analyze social media and other web content.
Oauth2 Authentication
Oauth2 is an authentication method commonly used as a way for users to authorize websites or
applications to access their information on other vendors using authentication tokens, without giving
them the credentials to the vendor. Oauth2 is used when the connection to a vendor is done through
a mediator app.
Order Management System API Connector
Order Management System (OMS) is a central hub for handling all aspects of the order life cycle,
including order capture, fulfillment, shipping, payment processing, and services.
Outbrain API Connector
Outbrain API connector
Pinterest API Connector
Pinterest is an online pinboard for collecting visual pieces of multimedia and sharing the content with
other users within the platform.
Pinterest Ads API Connector
Pinterest Ads is Pinterest’s Advertising Channel, through which Promoted Pins are created, edited, and
managed.
Python Data Stream Retrievals
Python scripts are an effective, fast growing and easy to use technology, and they are now supported
in Marketing Cloud Intelligence as a Retrieval Method for TotalConnect Data Streams. Although in
some cases the same results can be achieved using HTTP requests, Python retrievals are more robust
while still being flexible, powerful, and relatively easy to set up.
Quora Ads API Connector
Quora is an online community that allows users to share knowledge (by asking and answering
155

=== PAGE 160 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
questions). Quora is one of the highest-quality user-generated content platforms.
Radarly API Connector
Radarly by Linkfluence, is a social listening platform that uses Artificial Intelligence (AI) to turn social
data into valuable insights. With Radarly, users can leverage social data and gather valuable consumer
insights online.
Reddit Ads API Connector
Reddit is a social news aggregation, web content rating, and discussion website. Reddit Ads is a
platform users can purchase and manage advertising space.
Salesforce Marketing Cloud Data Extensions
Salesforce Marketing Cloud is a platform for delivering relevant, personalized journeys across channels
and devices - enabling marketers to deliver the right message at the right time throughout all phases
of the relationship.
Salesforce Marketing Cloud Legacy API Connector
This connector provides data about email marketing campaigns.
Salesforce Marketing Cloud For Email & Mobile API Connector
Salesforce Marketing Cloud is a platform for delivering relevant, personalized journeys across channels
and devices - enabling marketers to deliver the right message at the right time throughout all phases
of the relationship. This API connector can be used to retrieve Email data from Email Studio, including
device, browser, operating system, geolocation and domain breakdowns, and campaign details.
Salesforce Account Engagement API Connector
Marketing Cloud Account Engagement (Pardot) is Salesforce’s B2B marketing automation solution. If
you’re a business that sells to other businesses (or B2B), Account Engagement can automate your
marketing activities and unite your marketing and sales departments so that they can work better
together.
Salesforce Reports API Connector
The Salesforce Reports API connector retrieves reports created in Salesforce, in this connector you will
have access to all the reports in Salesforce to which you have permissions for. Since the reports in
Salesforce are customizable, once you save the stream you will be directed to the Mapping screen to
allow you the same level of customization in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
Salesforce SOQL Technical Vendor
The connector allows using SOQL to pull data from any Salesforce entity.
Search Ads 360 API Connector
Search Ads 360
Search Ads 360 Custom API Connector
Search Ads 360
SEMrush API Connector
SEMrush is a competitive research platform that allows you to analyze your competitors' domains,
looking into their traffic, relevant keyword, and so on, SEMrush offers different types of data so you can
set up the connector to your liking.
SimilarWeb API Connector
SimilarWeb is a digital marketing platform offering a competitive analysis of site traffic.
Sizmek API Connector
156

=== PAGE 161 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The Sizmek API connector.
Snapchat API Connector
Snapchat Ads is an ads platform that provides three types of advertising - Snap Ads, Snapchat
Geofilters, and Lenses.
Socialbakers API Connector
The Socialbakers platform is an AI-powered social media marketing company offering social media
analysis on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, YouTube, LinkedIn, Google+, VK, and Pinterest. With this
new integration, Socialbakers users can retrieve their owned accounts data across different social
media platforms.
Social Studio API Connector
Salesforce Social Studio is a Management Center and Social Listening Platform for owned social
accounts on popular social networks, such as Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest, and
Google+. It’s also a platform for Social Listening.
Use Scheduled Reports to Integrate Social Studio with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Salesforce Social Studio is a Management Center and Social Listening Platform for owned social
accounts on popular social networks, such as Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest.
Spotify Ads API Connector
Spotify Ad Studio is an ad server that provides tools for advertisers to create campaigns and track
them in Spotify, a digital music service. Through Spotify's integration with Marketing Cloud
Intelligence, you can access your Ad Studio campaign data within Intelligence's platform.
Sprout Social API Connector
With the Sprout connector you can pull analytics of owned social profiles you’ve integrated with
Sprout. Profile-level data is shown in PST and Post-level data is shown according to the social channels
own timezone. Sprout Social is a social channel connector and the data stream type is social objects
and Lifetime.
Synthesio API Connector
Synthesio is a social intelligence tool that provides the ability to listen to and analyze consumer
conversations across social and mainstream media.
Taboola API Connector
Content recommendation platform.
TikTok Ads API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the TikTok connector to retrieve data from the TikTok Ads Manager platform. You can then create
campaigns and track them in TikTok.
The Trade Desk (My Reports) API Connector
A Demand-Side Platform (DSP) that allows ad buyer teams to manage data-driven digital advertising
campaigns across various advertising formats, including display, video, and social, on a multitude of
devices.
The Trade Desk (My Reports) Custom API Connector
The Trade Desk (TTD) is a Demand-Side Platform that allows ad buyer teams to manage data-driven
digital advertising campaigns across various advertising formats, including display, video, and social,
on a multitude of devices. The TTD Custom API connector allows you to retrieve a custom set of
Measurements and Dimensions from the API into Marketing Cloud Intelligence. It enables you to pull
157

=== PAGE 162 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
data from any of the TTD (My Reports) reports. While the standard TTD (My Reports) API connector is
preset to be automatically mapped to the Data Model, the Custom connector requires manual setup.
TubeMogul API Connector
The TubeMogul API connector.
X Social Engagement API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the X Social Engagement API to pull organic data from your X accounts. The X Social Engagement
connector uses the X Engagement API connector. This connector measures the performance of
content using metrics that aren’t available in other X connectors.
X Ads API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the X Ads API connector to pull data that helps you target your audiences and promote tweet
campaigns. X Ads is a display channel connector.
Twitter Public (Competitive) API Connector
Twitter Public (Competitive) API Connector
Verizon Media API Connector
Verizon Media, is an advertising platform that provides simplicity, flexibility and transparency to buying
media, managing campaigns, and maximizing performance.
Weborama API Connector
Marketing Cloud Intelligence connects to Weborama’s Ad Server solution, retrieving data pertaining to
the marketing activity conducted in Weborama, and its performance.
Yahoo Gemini API Connector
Yahoo Gemini is Yahoo’s platform for native advertising and mobile search ads.
Yahoo Japan Display API Connector
Yahoo! JAPAN Display delivers ads based on Yahoo’s ad distribution technology on several Yahoo!
JAPAN services such as News, Auction, and Shopping. This API integration allows you to retrieve ad
data from the Yahoo Japan platform.
Yahoo Japan Search Ads API Connector
Yahoo! Japan Search Ads is a platform from which users can purchase and manage advertising space
on Yahoo! Japan.
Yandex API Connector
The report retrieved from Yandex is the "Statistics for all Campaigns" report. The report includes data
at the campaign level only.
YouTube Ads API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use YouTube ads to discover videos in various ways: by searching on the YouTube search page, clicking
suggested videos on the watch page, or choosing a video from the homepage feed. You can use
YouTube ads to advertise more effectively to people who are searching for your product or brand. The
YouTube ads connector is a display connector with a data lag of one day.
YouTube Insights API Connector
YouTube is a video sharing service where users can create their own profile, upload videos, watch, like,
and comment on other videos
YouTube Public (Competitive) API Connector
YouTube Public (Competitive)
YouTube Reports API Connector
158

=== PAGE 163 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
YouTube Reports
Adform API Connector
The Adform API connector retrieves Leads data. The data is aggregated and can only be seen at the
campaign level.
You might see some discrepancies in the Media Cost data, due to a difference between the API report
and the report sent to the user.
•
Channel: Display
•
Cost Data lagging: 1 Day back
Prerequisites
•
A valid Adform username and password with user level API access enabled. To enable API access, go
to your user profile screen and check the 'External API' checkbox
•
If your username and password don’t grant you access to the API, contact your Adform representative.
•
Adform has password complexity requirements for API users. If these requirements aren’t fulfilled, an
‘Invalid credentials’ error appears and you won’t be able to create the OAuth.
•
Password requirements:
- Minimum 6 symbols
- Upper and lower case letters
- Numbers
- At least 1 Special character
Additional Details
•
The maximum date range accessible through the API is 365 days from today. For example, last year's
data is available through the Adform API.
•
If the same credentials used to set this API are used in an additional Workspace, make sure to set the
Level to 'Account' through the Authentication edit window.
Extended Properties
•
Cost Type – Set the Cost type to match the Cost Type set in your Adform account. You can see the cost
type set in your Adform account be clicking the Cost column.
•
Get Banner Data – This checkbox pulls Creative Level Dimensions from Adform. After choosing this
checkbox, the following Dimensions are pulled to the Data Stream:
- Creative Key (AdID)
- Creative Name (AdName)
- Creative Category (bannerFormat)
- Creative Format (AdType)
- Creative Custom Attribute 01 (AdWidthxAdHeight)
159

=== PAGE 164 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
- Creative Custom Attribute 02 (AdFileSize)
•
Get Conversion Data – This checkbox pulls Conversion Data to the ‘Conversion Tag’ Bucket. The
following Dimensions and Measurements are pulled to the Data Stream:
- Conversion Tag Key (pageID)
- Conversion Tag Name (page)
- Total Conversions (conversions)
- Post Impression Conversions (PostImpressionLeads)
- Post Click Conversions (PostClickLeads)
- Post Impression Revenue (PostImpressionSales)
Adglow API Connector
Adglow is a Social Media Advertising Campaign Management Tool.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Ads and Conversion Tag
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Details
•
To retrieve data via the Adglow API, your campaigns must be listed within Adglow’s billing system.
Contact your Adglow representative to list your campaigns in their billing system.
•
Currently, Marketing Cloud Intelligence only supports Facebook data.
Prerequisites
A valid Adglow username and password required. Contact your Adglow representative to receive these
credentials.
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in Adglow for the required date range. Only Facebook reports can currently
be retrieved. Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date
range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Adjust API Connector
Adjust provides analytics, measurement, and fraud prevention solutions for mobile app marketers
worldwide.
Channel: Display
160

=== PAGE 165 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Data Stream Type:
•
Ads
•
Conversion Tags
•
Conversion Tag Keywords
•
Generic
•
Search Keywords
•
Web Analytics
•
Web Analytics Events
•
Web Analytics Pages
•
Web Analytics Tags
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
A valid API Token. To retrieve your API Token, log in to your Adjust account and under My Profile select
API Token. Copy and paste your API Token into the Authentication box in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
Extended Properties
Data Stream Type – Select one of the available Data Stream Types you want to map your data to. You
can only select one Data Stream Type in any given Adjust API Data Stream.
QA Your Data
11.. Download a compatible report from the Adjust platform
aa.. Navigate to the Menu and select Statistics.
bb.. Select the App you want to pull data for.
cc.. Click the download icon and under Type, select Drill Down.
dd.. Download the Report.
22.. Process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range. Make sure
that you select the same App that you selected in the Adjust platform under the Statistics tab.
33.. Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
44.. Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Adobe Analytics API Connector
Adobe Analytics is a Web Analytics service that tracks and reports website traffic and interaction.
•
Channel: Web Analytics
•
Data Stream Type:
- Web Analytics
- Web Analytics Pages
161

=== PAGE 166 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
To connect to Adobe Analytics, you need valid OAuth credentials (Client Id + Client Secret).
General Setup
Enter your credentials and select the Profile you want to pull data for.
Extended Properties
•
Location Breakdown – Select this to add a further breakdown to the data retrieved by the API,
resulting in a higher level of granularity on which the Measurements can be sliced. The following
Breakdown is available when pulling data from the Adobe Analytics API, in addition to the standard
data being pulled:
- Country – Select to pull country data and add the Dimension ‘Country’ to the dataset.
•
Get Pages – Select this checkbox to retrieve page-level data. The following fields are added to the Web
Analytics Pages Data Stream Type:
- Web Analytics Page Path Level 1
- Web Analytics Page Path Level 2
- Web Analytics Page Path
- Web Analytics Page Hostname
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Adobe Analytics platform for the required date range. Next, process
the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Adobe Analytics Custom API Connector
The Adobe Analytics Custom API Connector allows you to retrieve a custom set of Measurements and
Dimensions from the Adobe Analytics API into Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
The standard Adobe Analytics API connector is preset to be accurately mapped to the Data Model, while
the Custom connectors require manual setup. Use the Adobe Analytics Custom Connectors to retrieve
unique measurements, data from the Data Warehouse reports, or if you want to retrieve calculated
metrics and segments from the Analytics reports.
•
Channel: Web Analytics
•
Data Stream Type:
162

=== PAGE 167 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
- Ads Conversion Tag
- Generic
- Web Analytics
- Web Analytics Events
- Web Analytics Tags
- Web Analytics Pages
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
To connect to Adobe Analytics, you need valid OAuth credentials (Client Id + Client Secret).
General Setup
Enter your credentials and select the Profile you want to pull data for.
•
Account – Select the Adobe Analytics account you want to retrieve data for. This correlates to the
Report Suite in Adobe Analytics.
•
Segments – Select the Segment you want to retrieve data for. This section is optional and you can only
select one segment per Data Stream; however, you can add multiple Segment values within the
Extended Properties (see below).
•
Fields – Select the fields you require. You can select up to 3 Dimensions per Data Stream and up to 30
Measurements. Dimension fields are identified with the prefix (ELEMENT) and Measurements are
prefixed with (METRIC).
Extended Properties
•
Override Segments – Insert the Segment IDs of the segments you want to pull. This is only relevant if
you want to query more than one segment per Data Stream. Separate each segment ID with a
comma.
Note The values inserted here override the segment selected in the General Setup section (see
above).
•
Date Granularity – Select the date granularity you want to retrieve your data for:
- Daily
- Aggregated
Note If Aggregated is set, the data is retrieved without a Day Dimension, so you’ll need to apply
a Date in the Mapping Screen.
•
Data Stream Type – Select one of the available Data Stream Types you want to map your data to. You
can only select one type of Data Stream Type in any given Adobe Analytics Custom API Data Stream.
You can map into the following Data Stream Types:
- Ads
- Conversion Tag
- Generic
163

=== PAGE 168 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
- Web Analytics
- Web Analytics Events
- Web Analytics Tags
- Web Analytics Pages
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Adobe Analytics platform for the required date range. Next, process
the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
QA Unique Measurements
When Day is selected as the Date Granularity in the Extended Properties, Instead of comparing the
Measurement Totals, compare each line measurement.
Using the example below, you can see that each line matches even though the Total does not:
When Aggregated is selected as the Date Granularity in the Extended Properties, look in the Data Stream
log within Marketing Cloud Intelligence to identify the processing batches’ date ranges.
•
After it is identified, create the desired report in the Adobe Analytics platform, with the same
Dimensions and date ranges like one of the batches that were found.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the same
Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Instead of comparing the Measurement Totals, compare each line measurement.
Adobe Analytics Custom 2.0 API Connector
The Adobe Analytics 2.0 Custom API Connector integrates with the latest Adobe Analytics 2.0 API
endpoints. The new custom connector allows for simplified query methods and increased capacity for
multiple breakdown reports making it the optimal choice for high volume use cases.
The standard Adobe Analytics API connector is preset to be accurately mapped to the Data Model, while
the Custom connectors require manual setup.
•
Channel: Web Analytics
164

=== PAGE 169 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Data Stream Type:
- Ads Conversion Tag
- Generic
- Web Analytics
- Web Analytics Events
- Web Analytics Tags
- Web Analytics Pages
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
To connect to Adobe Analytics, you need valid OAuth credentials (Client Id + Client Secret).
General Setup
Enter your credentials and select the Profile you want to pull data for.
•
Account – Select the Adobe Analytics account you want to retrieve data for. Account correlates to the
Report Suite in Adobe Analytics.
•
Segments – Select the Segment you want to retrieve data for. This section is optional and you can only
select one segment per Data Stream; however, you can add multiple Segment values within the
Extended Properties.
•
Fields – Select the fields you require. You can select up to 3 Dimensions per Data Stream and up to 30
Measurements. Dimension fields are identified with the prefix (ELEMENT) and Measurements are
prefixed with (METRIC).
Extended Properties
•
Override Segments – Insert the Segment IDs of the segments you want to pull. Only relevant if you
want to query more than one segment per Data Stream. Separate each segment ID with a comma.
Note The values inserted here override the segment selected in the General Setup section.
•
Date Granularity – Select the date granularity you want to retrieve your data for:
- Daily
- Aggregated
Note If Aggregated is set, the data is retrieved without a Day Dimension, you must apply a Date
in the Mapping Screen.
•
Data Stream Type – Select one of the available Data Stream Types you want to map your data to. You
can only select one type of Data Stream Type in any given Adobe Analytics Custom API Data Stream.
You can map into the following Data Stream Types:
- Ads
- Conversion Tag
- Generic
- Web Analytics
165

=== PAGE 170 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
- Web Analytics Events
- Web Analytics Tags
- Web Analytics Pages
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Adobe Analytics platform for the required date range. Next, process
the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report, Table Widget, or Pivot Table containing the exact same Dimensions and
Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
QA Unique Measurements
When Day is selected as the Date Granularity in the Extended Properties, Instead of comparing the
Measurement Totals, compare each line measurement.
Using the example below, you can see that each line matches even though the Total doesn’t.
When Aggregated is selected as the Date Granularity in the Extended Properties, look in the Data Stream
log within Marketing Cloud Intelligence to identify the processing batches’ date ranges.
•
After the date range is identified, create the desired report in the Adobe Analytics platform, with the
same Dimensions and date ranges like one of the batches that were found.
•
Create a Report, Table Widget, or Pivot Table containing the same Dimensions and Measurements for
the same report and date range.
•
Instead of comparing the Measurement Totals, compare each line measurement.
Adobe Analytics Data Warehouse API Connector
Adobe Analytics is a Web Analytics service that tracks and reports website traffic and interaction.
This connector retrieves data from the ‘Data Warehouse’ reports section in Adobe Analytics. Pulling data
from Data Warehouse means that you can’t retrieve Calculated Metrics —— you can only retrieve data for
a selection of supported Segments.
•
Channel: Web Analytics
•
Data Stream Type:
- Web Analytics
166

=== PAGE 171 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
- Web Analytics Pages
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
To connect to Adobe Analytics, you need valid OAuth credentials (Client Id + Client Secret).
Details
When Authenticating Adobe Analytics, you’re required to enter a Username and the Secret Key. For the
Username value, you have to combine your User Name and Company Name values in the following
format: Username:Company and the Secret Key, is your Shared Secret value in Adobe
If you’re not sure how to find your Shared Secret value in Adobe, go to the User Settings and under the
Web Service section, you’ll see a string that is referred to as your Shared Secret.
General Setup
Select your Account. Account correlates to the ‘Report Suite’ value in Adobe Analytics. Only after
segment can be selected at a time. To add more than one segment see the Extended Properties.
In the Fields dropdown list, all Dimension fields are identified with the prefix (ELEMENT) and metrics are
prefixed with (METRIC). Calculated fields can’t be selected.
Extended Properties
•
Override Segments – This setting is only relevant if you need to query on more than one Segment, as
it allows you to enter up to 4 Segment values (which you can’t do from the Segment dropdown at the
top). Enter the segment values ids separated by commas. Be advised that the values entered in the
Override Segments section overrides any Segment selection you have made in the dropdown at the
top. To obtain the Segment ID values from within the Adobe platform, edit a certain Segment and
retrieve the ID value from the URL component.
•
Data Stream Type – The data being pulled is unmapped, so select the Data Stream Type to which the
retrieved fields should be mapped to.
Additional Information
•
The Segment List in Marketing Cloud Intelligence populates ALL the available segments from Adobe,
some Segments might not be compatible with Data Warehouse Report Type (as per Adobe’s internal
limitation). Thus, if you select a Segment that isn’t supported in Data Warehouse, the Data Stream
processing fails with an error message to that effect. If you’re unsure which Segments are supported in
Data Warehouse, then as best practice we suggest you verify this from within the Adobe platform prior
to creating the Data Stream. To do so, simply check which Segments were populated in the list of
Segments in the DW Report Builder itself.
167

=== PAGE 172 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
As for your selection of Dimensions (identified with the prefix ELEMENT) note that you can only
combine Dimensions from within the same ‘Group’ (or ‘Type Breakdown’) again, as per an Adobe
limitation. The two available groups are ‘Traffic’ and ‘Commerce’. You can’t for example have both
'browserheight' (Traffic) and 'category' (Commerce) as 2 Dimensions queried within the same Data
Stream, as each belongs to a different group and would, therefore, cause the Data Stream processing
to fail.
•
Not all Dimensions are supported in the Data Warehouse Report Type. To find out which Dimensions
are supported, drag & drop a Dimension (Element) into the Segment Builder’s Definitions field to find
out about its Report Type compatibility.
•
In the Fields dropdown list, due to security reasons, all HTML tags are removed from the field names.
As a result, field names that have HTML tags (such as < >) won’t match perfectly to their names in
Adobe.
•
The reporting UI (Adobe Workspace) doesn’t produce a flat CSV report, rather it provides a drill-down
report with a limit of only 400 rows. This can be challenging when trying to compare data with
maximum granularity.
Pulling Unique Measurements in Adobe Analytics
The Unique Measurement values will only match those on the Adobe platform for the exact same
combination of Dimensions (including Date), but not at any other level and not as a total of these rows of
data.
QA Your Data: Regular Measurements
•
Generate a report in the Adobe Data Warehouse Report Builder with the exact same set of Dimensions
and Measurements that exist in the Data Stream query, for a certain date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and measurements for the same date range.
•
Compare the measurement totals and make sure they’re aligned.
•
Make sure that you’ve mapped correctly in terms of entity relationships. Filter the Adobe report for a
certain dimension value and make sure that the list of associated Dimensions seen in the Adobe
report corresponds to that seen in Marketing Cloud Intelligence when the same filtering is applied.
•
Make sure that the metric values are aligned.
QA Your Data: Unique Measurements
•
Generate a report in Adobe DW Report Builder that has the exact same set of Dimensions including
Date and unique measurements that exist in the Data Stream query.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and unique measurement/s, for the same date range.
•
Instead of comparing the Measurement Totals, compare each line measurement.
168

=== PAGE 173 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Adocean Gemius API Connector
Adocean is an Ad Server platform that offers advertising space to several Ad Providers at the same time,
allowing the same space to be used for direct sales. This enables the automatic optimization of revenue
from a single advertising space.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Types:
- Ads
- Conversion Tags
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
A valid Gemius username and password is required.
Setup Process
•
Enter your Gemius credentials, and after it is authenticated, a list of all the Clients that you have access
to is populated.
•
Select the Client you wish to pull data for from the ‘Users’ dropdown.
Details
The following Dimensions and Measurements are pulled by default and mapped to the Ads Data Stream
Type:
INTELLIGENCE Field
AdOcean Field Type
date_id Day Dimension
campaign_external_id Campaign Key Dimension
(CampaignId)
campaign_name Campaign Name Dimension
(CampaignName)
campaign_start_time (startTS) Campaign Start Date Dimension
169

=== PAGE 174 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
INTELLIGENCE Field
AdOcean Field Type
campaign_end_time (endTS) Campaign End Date Dimension
media_buy_external_id Media Buy Key Dimension
(PlacementId)
media_buy_name Media Buy Name Dimension
(PlacementName)
exchange_external_id Exchange Key Dimension
(PublisherId)
exchange_name Exchange Name Dimension
(PublisherName)
currency Currency Attribute
ad_key (CreativeId) Creative Key Dimension
ad_name (CreativeName) Creative Name Dimension
ad_category (creativeTypeName) Creative Category Dimension
ad_format (creativeFormName) Creative Format Dimension
impressions (impressions) Impressions Measurement
clicks (clicks) Clicks Measurement
media_cost (totalCost) Media Cost Measurement
frequency (frequency) Frequency Measurement
reach (reach) Reach Measurement
The following Dimensions and Measurements are pulled by default and mapped to the Conversion Tag
Data Stream Type:
Type
AdOcean Field INTELLIGENCE Field
date_id Day Dimension
campaign_external_id Campaign Key Dimension
(CampaignId)
campaign_name Campaign Name Dimension
(CampaignName)
media_buy_external_id Media Buy Key Dimension
(PlacementId)
170

=== PAGE 175 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Type
AdOcean Field INTELLIGENCE Field
media_buy_name Media Buy Name Dimension
(PlacementName)
exchange_external_id Exchange Key Dimension
(PublisherId)
exchange_name Exchange Name Dimension
(PublisherName)
currency Currency Attribute
conversion_tag_external_id Conversion Tag Key Dimension
(campaignActionID)
conversion_tag_name Conversion Tag Name Dimension
(campaignActionName)
total_conversions (actions) Total Conversions Measurement
post_impressions Post Impression Conversions Measurement
(postViewActions)
post_clicks (postClickActions) Post Click Conversions Measurement
ad_key (CreativeId) Creative Key Dimension
ad_name (CreativeName) Creative Name Dimension
ad_category (creativeTypeName) Creative Category Dimension
ad_format (creativeFormName) Creative Format Dimension
There are additional unmapped fields that you can map manually for both Data Stream Types.
Extended Properties
•
Date Breakdown
- Day - This is the default Date Breakdown and aggregates the data by a daily Date Breakdown.
- Week - Selecting this aggregates the date by a weekly Date Breakdown.
- Aggregated - Selecting this setting means that the data won’t be aggregated on a Daily or Weekly
level. Instead, the data is assigned a Data Date based on the day of its retrieval. This setting is most
useful for viewing Unique Measurements, such as Reach and Frequency without having a Daily or
Weekly aggregation applied to them.
•
Placement Display Mode - From here you can determine whether to retrieve Placements, Folders or
both:
- Leaves - Selecting this retrieves Placements
- Nodes - Selecting this retrieves Folders
- All - Selecting this retrieves both Placements and Folders. Selecting this option could lead to
171

=== PAGE 176 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
duplications of the Measurements data.
•
Get Conversions - This is checked by default and pulls Conversions data to the Conversion Tag Data
Stream Type.
•
Get Creative Interactions - Selecting this pulls Video Interaction Measurements (such as Video
Completions) into the Ads Data Stream Type.
•
Get Full Placement Path - Retrieve the full directory path of the Placement in a Dimension called
placementFullPath unmapped in Ads and Conversion Tag buckets.
In AdOcean’s UI, Creative Interactions are represented as different values under a Dimension called
‘Creative Interaction’, where the quantity of each type of Creative Interaction is placed under a
Measurement called ‘Interactions’, as shown below:
Creative Campaign Creative Interaction Interactions (#)
Y X 25% Viewed 5
Y X 50% Viewed 2
Y X Fully Viewed 1
For this data to appear correctly in Marketing Cloud Intelligence, Marketing Cloud Intelligence performs
a process similar to a Pivot Transformer, whereas the Dimension and Measurement are parsed as four
separate Measurements - Video Views 25%, Video Views 50%....etc. As illustrated below:
Creative Campaign 25% Viewed 50% Viewed Fully Viewed
Y X 5 2 1
Known Issues
Checking the ‘Get Creative Interactions’ box in the Extended Properties retrieves an additional report
from AdOcean. This means that every time the Data Stream is processed, it will be processing an
additional report - potentially adding to the processing time. Additionally, due to the structure of the
Creative Interactions data, as detailed above, Marketing Cloud Intelligence may not automatically parse
some Creative Interaction Types.
QA Your Data
•
Within Marketing Cloud Intelligence, create a Pivot Table for the same Date Range and Client as the
Report you generated in AdOcean.
•
Since the AdOcean UI is limited to showing only three Dimensions at a time, your view in Marketing
Cloud Intelligence should only include three Dimensions to match what you see in AdOcean.
•
Match the Date Range of your view in Marketing Cloud Intelligence to the Date Range you’re looking at
within the AdOcean UI.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals per row to ensure the data is correct.
172

=== PAGE 177 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Adroll API Connector
AdRoll is an Ecommerce Growth Platform helping brands grow revenue through marketing and ads.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Types:
- Ads
- Conversion Tags
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
A valid AdRoll Username and Password is required.
Extended Properties
•
Get Ads Data Level - When this box is checked, an Ads Data Report is retrieved in addition to the
Display data retrieved by the API by default, this added report is mapped to the Ads Data Stream Type.
•
Get Conversions - This box is checked by default, and will retrieve a Conversions Report in addition to
the Display data retrieved by the API by default, this added report is mapped to the Conversion Tag
Data Stream Type.
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the AdRoll UI for the required date range. Then, process the relevant Data
Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Select the relevant AdRoll Report, as specified in the Extended Properties of the Data Stream.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Adthena API Connector
Adthena provides search competitive data.
•
Data Stream Types: Unmapped
•
Data Lag: 2 Days
General Setup
Select the dates for which you wish to process the Data, under Initial Data Fetch.
173

=== PAGE 178 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Extended Properties
•
Data Stream Type - Select the Data Stream Type for the Data you wish to retrieve.
•
Reports Type - Select one of the available Report Types: Market Share, Market Trends, Top Ads, Google
Shopping (or Top PLAs, which is called ‘Google Shopping’ on the Adthena UI (Product Listing Ads -
Google Shopping in the Adthena UI).
•
Results Filter - Whole Market filters the report by general market terms, My Terms filters the report
according to your search terms.
•
Device Breakdown - Select By Devices or Totals. By Devices means that Marketing Cloud Intelligence
adds a device breakdown via the Device Dimension. Totals returns the totals without the device
breakdown.
Note
•
The Top Ads and Google ShoppingTop PLA Reports always includes Device Breakdown, regardless
of the setting you apply here.
•
Marketing Cloud Intelligence allows you to retrieve all the available Measurements at once.
Additional Details
•
Adthena has four different types of Reports:
- Market Share
- Market Trends
- Top Ads
- Top PLAs (Product Listing Ads) - Google Shopping in Adthena UI
•
For the Market Share and Market Trend reports, Marketing Cloud Intelligence pulls the actual
percentage Measurements.
- It’s recommended to change the Measurement format to percentage for ease of analysis.
- With Percentage Measurements it’s also recommended to consume the Data at the granularity with
which it was pulled as viewing it at any other granularity could result in discrepancies.
Advanced Settings
•
The Market Trends Report is retrieved with a Daily Breakdown.
•
Other reports can’t be retrieved with a Daily Breakdown. For these Reports Marketing Cloud
Intelligence queries Adthena for 7-day batches and receives the aggregated Measurement values for
that duration. The End Date of the 7-day period is the value that is mapped to the Marketing Cloud
Intelligence ‘Day’ value.
•
The ‘Statistic Span days’ is what determines the number of days in the processing batch while the
‘Sliding Window’ setting determines the number of days queried on each of the Stream’s automatic
daily runs. In light of this, the ‘Sliding Window’ setting should also be configured to the same number
as the ‘Statistic Span Days’ to allow the Stream to query the source for the number of days that it is
configured to process. Should your processing Date Range consist of a sum of days that can’t be
174

=== PAGE 179 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
divided by the number set as the Statistic Span Days - in this example, 7 - any days that are left over
will be aggregated for their own Duration Period.
•
If you wish to create a Daily Breakdown for the Data Stream you create, set both the ‘Statistic Span
Days’ and ‘Sliding Window’ to 1 day.
QA Your Data
•
Create the relevant Adthena Report Type for a certain Date Range.
•
In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, create a Pivot Table for the same Date Range as the Report you
generated in Adthena.
•
Compare the Measurement values per row. Be sure not to compare the total Measurement values for
more than one row at a time, as the fact that Marketing Cloud Intelligence pulls the Percentage values
rather than the raw Measurement values that will lead to a difference between the two views.
QA Market Share, Top Ads and Google Shopping
•
When creating one of these Reports in the Adthena UI, you’ll have to comply with at least one of the
processing batches’ Date Ranges and compare your data based on that Date Range. To view the Batch
Date Range for which you’ll need to generate the report in the Adthena UI, refer to the relevant Data
Stream’s Execution Log.
•
When creating the Pivot Table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence, filter it for one Date value - the last day
in the Adthena Report’s Date Range.
•
As in the Marketing Trends Report, any comparisons for Percentage Measurements should be
performed per row, rather than for several rows at a time.
Affiliate Future API Connector
Affiliate Future provides advertisers with an effective marketing solution through its affiliate network and
tools.
•
Channel: Affiliate Network
•
Data Stream Types:
- Ads
- Conversion Tags
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
A valid Affiliate Future API Key and API Password are required.
•
Log in to your Affiliate Future Advertiser account
•
Click the Bar Chart icon and select ‘Reporting APIs’
•
Scroll to the bottom of the page and click ‘Click here’.
•
Under the API Details you’ll find your API Key and API Password.
175

=== PAGE 180 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Enter your API Key and Password into the Authentication box.
General Setup
After you authenticate, in the General section, select the Account you want to connect to Marketing
Cloud Intelligence.
Extended Properties
•
Reports Type - The following two reports are available for retrieval from Affiliate Future:
- Publisher Report
- Transaction Report (includes both the Sales and Leads reports).
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Affiliate Future UI for the required date range. Then, process the
relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Select the relevant Affiliate Future Report, as specified in the Extended Properties of the Data Stream.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
AirPush API Connector
Airpush is a mobile ad network that displays data on mobile advertising.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Types:
- Ads
- Conversion Tags
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
Authentication Key - The Authentication Key can be found in AirPush under the API tab
Details
•
The Airpush API retrieves all the data relevant to the Account. Since there are no profiles in Airpush,
the profile in Marketing Cloud Intelligence is set to 'Default'
•
To validate your data compare it to the view in the Custom Reports section under the Reports tab in
Airpush. Make sure that the date range in Airpush is compatible with the date range in Marketing
Cloud Intelligence.
•
When validating your data the Campaign level view in the Custom Report section displays rows with
176

=== PAGE 181 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
no Measurements data. Dates with no Measurements data are not processed in Marketing Cloud
Intelligence, so they won’t be displayed in the Marketing Cloud Intelligence view. If you see dates in
Airpush that aren’t displayed in Marketing Cloud Intelligence check to see if they have delivery metrics,
if not they were not processed.
Amazon Advertising API Connector
This API connector retrieves data for Amazon Campaign Types Sponsored Products and Headline Search
Ads
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Types:
- Ads (for Delivery Data)
- Conversion Tag (for Conversions Data)
- Search Keywords (for Keywords data with Delivery Data)
- Conversion Tag with Keywords (for Keywords data with Conversions Data)
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
A valid User Name and Password as a ‘Merchant’ account with access to Amazon’s Seller Central is
required.
Details
Data retrieval is only available for the last 60 days.
Extended Properties
This connector always retrieves datasets for both Amazon Campaign Types—Sponsored Products, and
Headline Search Ads regardless of what is configured in the Extended Properties of the Data Stream.
•
Get Conversions - retrieves additional Conversions and Revenue Measurements (including many
Conversions Measurements that are unmapped by default), and that data are mapped into the
Conversion Tag Data Stream Type. Despite it being Conversions data, it won’t be retrieved with a
Conversion Name/Tag Dimension, but rather with the same set of Dimensions used in the Ads Data
Streams type
•
Get Keywords - retrieves an additional Keyword Dimension, and that dataset is mapped into the
Search Keywords Data Stream Type. Beyond the Measurements already retrieved into the Ads Data
Stream Type, no additional Measurements are retrieved within the Keyword dataset.
QA Your Data
•
Compare data for each Campaign Type separately.
177

=== PAGE 182 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Create a Report in Amazon for the relevant Campaign Type, consisting of the same Date Range,
Dimensions and Measurements that are included in the Report/Pivot Table/Widget created in
Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
•
Start off by simply comparing the Measurement totals and make sure those are aligned.
•
Filter both the Marketing Cloud Intelligence and Amazon reports for a certain Dimension value and
make sure that the Measurement totals are still aligned.
Amazon Attribution API Connector
Amazon Attribution is a platform that gives marketers insights into how their non-Amazon marketing
channels across search, social, video, and display impact shopping activity and sales performance on
Amazon.
•
Channel: Web Analytics
•
Data Stream Types:
- Web Analytics
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
To connect to the Amazon DSP API, you need a valid Username and Password.
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant profile and advertisers you want to retrieve data for.
You must specify at least one advertiser and up to 15 advertisers per data stream.
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Amazon Attribution platform for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Amazon Vendor Brand Analytics API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
First-party sellers, such as manufacturers and distributors, use the Amazon Vendor Central web interface
for selling products directly to Amazon. Connecting to the Amazon Vendor Brand Analytics API gives you
information about sales and traffic, consumer behavior, and operations.
You can view both order and item-level data using products’ Amazon Standard Identification Number
(ASIN). The data stream type is ecommerce, and data lagging is 1 day.
This API connector brings in consumer data, but if you want inventory data, see Amazon Vendor Central
178

=== PAGE 183 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Inventory API Connector.
Important Due to Amazon’s new authentication process, you must re-authenticate all Amazon
accounts once a year to ensure your data is up-to-date. For more information about this workflow,
see Amazon Authentication Workflow.
Note Because of an Amazon limitation, you can fetch only the past 7 days of your data. After
connecting your data to Marketing Cloud Intelligence, the API brings in data according to the set
schedule. The default is daily, and it accumulates in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
More details about the Amazon Vendor Brand Analytics API connector:
•
The connector brings in the product’s ASIN as shown in Amazon Seller Central and maps it as Product
Key.
•
You can connect more than one marketplace to the connector. However, you must create a separate
data stream per marketplace.
•
Amazon sometimes requires your approval to share data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
•
Amazon Vendor Central allows you to query only up to the past 7 days of data. After you connect your
data to Marketing Cloud Intelligence, the API continues bringing in data according to the specified
cadence, which is by default is daily.
Here’s a video about the Amazon Vendor Brand Analytics API connector:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/SdnpHoxAkh9Ra41hxaHaD1
Create an Amazon Vendor Brand Analytics Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Connect your Amazon Vendor Brand Analytics data to Marketing Cloud Intelligence to pull in
customer purchase data.
Create an Amazon Vendor Brand Analytics Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Connect your Amazon Vendor Brand Analytics data to Marketing Cloud Intelligence to pull in customer
purchase data.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
To authenticate with Marketing Cloud Intelligence: Admin in Amazon Seller Central
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select the Amazon Vendor Brand Analytics connector.
44.. In the General section, add an authentication. Before creating a connection, make sure that you’re
logged in to Amazon Vendor Central to avoid a longer authentication process.
179

=== PAGE 184 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
55.. In the Authentication Properties window, from the Marketplace location dropdown, select the
location of your store or marketplace. You can have one marketplace per data stream. If you’re using
more than one marketplace in your account, create a data stream for each marketplace. You can
create as many data streams as needed.
66.. Click Next.
77.. Enter your Amazon Vendor Central credentials. Amazon sometimes requests your approval to share
some of your data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
88.. To change the mapping, at the bottom of the Create New Stream page, select Map to Model.
99.. To apply advanced settings, at the bottom of the Create New Stream page, select Advanced Settings.
1100.. Click Create.
1111.. Quality check your data.
aa.. Create a report in the Amazon Vendor Central platform for the date range. On the Reports tab,
select Brand Analytics Reports and then select Sales Diagnostics.
bb.. Process the relevant data stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
cc.. Create a report, table widget, or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the same
dimensions and measurements for the same report and date range.
dd.. Compare the measurement totals to make sure that they align.
Amazon DSP API Connector
Amazon DSP is a demand-side platform that enables advertisers to programmatically buy display, video,
and audio ads both on and off Amazon.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Types:
- Ads
- Conversion Tag
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
To connect to the Amazon DSP API, you need a valid Username and Password.
Details
The Amazon DSP data stream is only able to process data for the past 90 days.
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant profile you want to retrieve data for.
Extended Properties
This connector always retrieves datasets for both Amazon Campaign Types—Sponsored Products, and
180

=== PAGE 185 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Headline Search Ads regardless of what is configured in the Extended Properties of the Data Stream.
•
Get Conversions - Select this checkbox to retrieve Conversion data in addition to the Delivery data
retrieved by the API by default
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Amazon DSP platform for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Amazon Seller Central API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Amazon Seller Central is a web interface used by brands and merchants to market and sell their products
directly to Amazon customers.
With the Amazon Seller Central API connector, you connect your advertising and ecommerce data to
bring in sales data, such as inventory, pricing, orders, and performance analysis. This connector provides
both order and item-level data using the SKU of the products. The data stream type is ecommerce, and
data lagging is 1 day.
Important Due to Amazon’s new authentication process, you must re-authenticate all Amazon
accounts once a year to ensure your data is up-to-date. For more information about this workflow,
see Amazon Authentication Workflow.
More details about the Amazon Seller Central API connector
•
The Amazon Seller Central API connector brings in the ASIN product number as shown in Amazon
Seller Central and maps it as ‘Product Key’ automatically.
•
You can connect more than one marketplace to the connector, however you must create a separate
data stream per each marketplace.
•
Amazon sometimes requires your approval to share data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
Create an Amazon Seller Central Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Connect your advertising and ecommerce data to bring in sales data.
Create an Amazon Seller Central Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Connect your advertising and ecommerce data to bring in sales data.
181

=== PAGE 186 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
To authenticate with Marketing Cloud Intelligence: Admin in Amazon Seller Central
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select the Amazon Seller Central connector.
44.. In the General section, add an authentication.
55.. In the Authentication Properties window, from the Market Place dropdown, select the location where
you sell your products.
You can have one marketplace per data stream. If you’re using more than one marketplace in your
account, create another data stream for this marketplace. You can create as many data streams as
needed.
66.. Click Next.
77.. Enter your Amazon Seller Central credentials. Amazon sometimes requests your approval to share
some of your data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
88.. To bring in revenue on product level data, under Extended Properties, select Get Product Level Data.
This means that data is brought in at the product level every day, removing the granularity of order
level data. If this checkbox isn’t selected, order level data is pulled instead.
99.. To change the mapping, at the bottom of the Create New Stream page, select Map to Mode.
1100.. To apply advanced settings, at the bottom of the Create New Stream page, select Advanced Settings.
1111.. Click Create.
Quality check your data:
•
Create a report in Amazon Seller Central for the date range and then process the relevant data stream
in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range. Go to Reports and then select Fulfillment by
Amazon (FBA). Expand FBA Inventory, then FBA Business Reports, Sales Reports, and then select All
Order Report. For more information, see Amazon’s Help Site.
•
Process the relevant data stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a report, table widget, or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the same
dimensions and measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the measurement totals and make sure that they align.
Amazon Vendor Central Inventory API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Amazon Vendor Central Inventory is a web interface used by first-party sellers, such as direct
manufacturers and distributors, for selling products directly to Amazon.
By connecting to the Amazon Vendor Central Inventory API, you get information about sales and traffic,
consumer behavior, operations, and more. You can view this data using the Amazon Standard
Identification Number (ASIN) of the products. The data stream type is ecommerce, and data lagging is 1
day.
182

=== PAGE 187 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Important Due to Amazon’s new authentication process, you must re-authenticate all Amazon
accounts once a year to ensure your data is up-to-date. For more information about this workflow,
see Amazon Authentication Workflow.
Note Because of an Amazon limitation, you can fetch only the past 7 days of your data. After
connecting your data to Marketing Cloud Intelligence, the API brings in data according to the set
schedule (the default is daily), and it accumulates in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
More details about the Amazon Vendor Central Inventory API connector:
•
The Amazon Vendor Central Inventory API connector brings in the ASIN product number as shown in
Amazon Vendor Central and maps it as ‘Product Key’ automatically.
•
You can connect more than one marketplace to the connector, however you must create a separate
data stream per each marketplace.
•
Amazon sometimes requires your approval to share data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
•
Amazon Vendor Central Inventory allows you to query 7 days back of data. After you connect your data
to Marketing Cloud Intelligence the API continues bringing in data according to the set cadence,
which is automatically set to daily.
•
Currently you can’t retrieve direct-fulfillment data with this connector; however a new connector is
being developed to handle this use case. For more information, contact Marketing Cloud Intelligence
support.
Create an Amazon Vendor Central Inventory Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Connect your Amazon Vendor Central Inventory data to Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
Create an Amazon Vendor Central Inventory Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Connect your Amazon Vendor Central Inventory data to Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
To authenticate with Marketing Cloud Intelligence: Admin in Amazon Vendor Central Inventory
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select the Amazon Vendor Central Inventory connector.
44.. In the General section, add an authentication. Make sure you’re logged into Amazon Vendor Central
Inventory before creating a new connection to avoid a longer authentication process.
55.. In the Authentication Properties window, from the Market place Location dropdown, select the
location of your store or marketplace.
You can have one marketplace per data stream. If you’re using more than one marketplace in your
account, create another data stream for this marketplace. You can create as many data streams as
183

=== PAGE 188 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
needed.
66.. Click Next.
77.. Enter your Amazon Vendor Central credentials. Amazon sometimes requests your approval to share
some of your data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
88.. To change the mapping, at the bottom of the Create New Stream page, select Map to Mode.
99.. To apply advanced settings, at the bottom of the Create New Stream page, select Advanced Settings.
1100.. Click Create.
Quality check your data.
•
Create a report in the Amazon Vendor Central platform for the date range and then process the
relevant data stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a report, table widget, or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the same
dimensions and measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the measurement totals and make sure they align.
Account Analytics API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
With the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Account Analytics connector, you can monitor engagement, page
views, audit changes, and entity creation logs. You can use this data to create customized views, add
dynamic dashboards, and pull actionable reports. The connector includes logs for both unpublished and
published pages.
To create an API data stream for Marketing Cloud Intelligence Account Analytics, you need access to the
workspace that you’re requesting data for.
The Marketing Cloud Intelligence Account Analytics data stream type is Lite Connect, and data lagging is
1 day.
Users are account level entities. When selecting the user entity from the extended properties, you see
data for all users in the account and not the specific workspace.
Create an Account Analytics Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To pull user activity and measure user engagement, create a Marketing Cloud Intelligence Account
Analytics data stream.
Create an Account Analytics Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To pull user activity and measure user engagement, create a Marketing Cloud Intelligence Account
Analytics data stream.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
184

=== PAGE 189 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To create an API data stream for Marketing Cloud Intelligence Account Analytics, you need access to the
workspace that you’re requesting data for.
11.. On the Connect and Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select Intelligence [Datorama] Account Analytics.
44.. In the General section, select the account and workspaces from the dropdown.
55.. Set the time period for the initial data fetch. You can process data up to the past 180 days.
66.. In Extended Properties, select the entities that you want to audit from the dropdown.
77.. To change the mapping, click Mapping. You can also access mapping by selecting Map to Model at
the bottom of the Create New Stream page.
88.. To define advanced settings for the data stream, at the bottom of the Create New Stream page, click
Advanced Settings.
99.. Click Create.
1100.. Quality check your data. Compare the data pulled from the connector to the data in Marketing Cloud
Intelligence Account Analytics.
AOL One Video API Connector
The ONE by AOL API connector retrieves data related to Video Ads that are displayed on mobile devices.
In using our API you'll able to retrieve standard Ads and Conversions data, such as Campaigns, Media
Buys, Impressions, Clicks, and Video Measurements.
Additional Measurements and Dimensions, including Viewability Measurements, are also retrieved and
are available unmapped. Their relevance depends on your data configuration.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
•
Valid Client ID & Secret – Contact your ONE by AOL representative to receive these credentials. Ask for
a Production Client ID and Secret. The Authentication Process is performed by the Marketing Cloud
Intelligence Platform.
•
Organization ID – The ID is available on the top right menu of the ONE by AOL UI. By clicking your
organization name, you’re able to see its ID.
Extended Properties
Continent and Time-Zone – To generate reports within ONE by AOL, specify the Continent and Time-
Zone for the account. This applies to using the API as well and setting the wrong values could lead to
discrepancies in the data.
Default values are set (North America, ETC/UTC), so the Data Stream is created without changing these
values.
185

=== PAGE 190 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
How to QA Your Data
Generate a report from the Reports section under the ‘Analytics’ menu, including all of the relevant
dimensions and measurements. Make sure to set the correct date range, Continent, and Time-Zone.
AppNexus Advertiser API Connector
AppNexus is a global internet technology company that operates an independent marketplace for digital
advertising, and enterprise technology for buyers and sellers of digital ads. AppNexus Advertiser is used
to retrieve performance, revenue, and profit data across a selected advertiser's creatives and campaigns.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type:
- Ads
- Conversion Tag
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
To connect to AppNexus Advertiser, you need a valid AppNexus user with API access enabled on the user
level. If your username and password don’t grant you access to the API, contact your AppNexus
representative.
General Setup
After you’ve entered your credentials, select the Profile you want to pull data for.
Extended Properties
•
Location Breakdown - Select this to add a further breakdown to the data retrieved by the API, resulting
in a higher level of granularity on which the Measurements can be sliced. The following Breakdown is
available when pulling data from the AppNexus Advertiser API, in addition to the standard data being
pulled:
- Country - Select this to pull country data and add the Dimension ‘Country’ to the dataset.
- TimeZone Breakdown - Select the time zone for which you want to pull data. (This is only available
for the Geo Analytics Report. Billing data is always be based in the UTC Time Zone.)
•
Get Conversions Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve Conversion and Revenue data in addition to
the Delivery data retrieved by the API by default. The following fields are added and mapped to the
Conversion Tag Data Stream Type:
- Total Conversions
- Revenue
- Post Impression Revenue
- Post Impression Conversions
- Post Click Revenue
186

=== PAGE 191 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
- Post Click Conversions
- Conversion Tag Key
•
Get Creative Level Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve creative level data in addition to the Delivery
data retrieved by the API by default. The following fields are added and mapped to the Conversion Tag
Data Stream Type:
- Creative Name
- Creative Key
- Creative Format
•
Get Video Metrics - Select this checkbox to retrieve video metric data in addition to the Delivery data
retrieved by the API by default. (Note that Video Measurements can’t be retrieved along with Billing
Period Values). The following fields are added and mapped to the Ads Data Stream Type:
- Video Plays
- Video Fully Played
- Video Competitions 75%
- Video Competitions 50%
- Video Competitions 25%
Known Issues
AppNexus stopped supporting Campaigns in Augmented Line Items (ALI) in August 2019. Instead, they
use Splits. Since Campaign ID and Name fields are mapped by default, these fields return empty for ALIs.
Split ID and Name are available unmapped.
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the AppNexus platform for the required date range.
•
Process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions
and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
AppNexus Network API Connector
AppNexus is a global internet technology company that operates an independent marketplace for digital
advertising, and enterprise technology for buyers and sellers of digital ads. AppNexus Network is used to
retrieve high-level performance data for a selected member of the AppNexus Network.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type:
- Ads
- Conversion Tag
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
187

=== PAGE 192 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Prerequisites
To connect to AppNexus Advertiser, you need a valid AppNexus user with API access enabled on the user
level. If your username and password don’t grant you access to the API, contact your AppNexus
representative.
Details
If you don't want to retrieve data for all the available Advertisers, use the Data Load Rules to filter out
Advertisers.
General Setup
After you’ve entered your credentials, select the Member you want to pull data for.
Extended Properties
•
Location Breakdown - Select this to add a further breakdown to the data retrieved by the API, resulting
in a higher level of granularity on which the Measurements can be sliced. The following Breakdown is
available when pulling data from the AppNexus Network API, in addition to the standard data being
pulled:
- Country - Select this to pull country data and add the Dimension ‘Country’ to the dataset.
- TimeZone Breakdown - Select the time zone for which you want to pull data. (This is only available
for the Geo Analytics Report. Billing data is always be based in the UTC Time Zone.)
•
Get Conversions Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve Conversion and Revenue data besides the
Delivery data retrieved by the API by default. The following fields are added and mapped to the
Conversion Tag Data Stream Type:
- Total Conversions
- Revenue
- Post Impression Revenue
- Post Impression Conversions
- Post Click Revenue
- Post Click Conversions
- Conversion Tag Key
•
Get Creative Level Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve creative level data besides the Delivery data
retrieved by the API by default. The following fields are added and mapped to the Conversion Tag Data
Stream Type:
- Creative Name
- Creative Key
- Creative Format
•
Get Video Metrics - Select this checkbox to retrieve video metric data besides the Delivery data
retrieved by the API by default. (Note that Video Measurements can’t be retrieved along with Billing
Period Values). The following fields are added and mapped to the Ads Data Stream Type:
- Video Plays
188

=== PAGE 193 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
- Video Fully Played
- Video Competitions 75%
- Video Competitions 50%
- Video Competitions 25%
Known Issues
AppNexus stopped supporting Campaigns in Augmented Line Items (ALI) in August 2019. Instead, they
use Splits. Since Campaign ID and Name fields are mapped by default, these fields return empty for ALIs.
Split ID and Name are available unmapped.
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the AppNexus platform for the required date range.
•
Process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions
and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
AppNexus Reports API Connector
AppNexus is a global internet technology company that operates an independent marketplace for digital
advertising, and enterprise technology for buyers and sellers of digital ads. AppNexus for Reports is used
to retrieve a selection of AppNexus reports.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type:
- Ads
- Conversion Tag
- Generic
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
In order to connect to AppNexus Advertiser, you need a valid AppNexus user with API access enabled on
the user level. If your username and password don’t grant you access to the API, contact your AppNexus
representative.
General Setup
After you’ve entered your credentials, select the Member you want to pull data for.
189

=== PAGE 194 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Extended Properties
•
Report Type - Select the report you want to pull data for. The following Report Types are available:
- Buyer Segment Performance Report - This report provides buyers with segment performance across
campaigns and multiple advertisers.
- Device Analytics Report - This report enables you to retrieve buy-side and sell-side performance data
based on devices where impressions were served.
- Geo Analytics Report - This report allows you to break down campaign delivery and performance by
geographic area.
- Network Site Domain Performance Report - This report shows performance and optimization data
by domain for all of a network's advertisers.
- Data Usage Report - This report provides details related to your usage of data provided by third
parties (for example, user segment providers), the costs of data usage and line items/campaigns in
which that data was used to target users.
- Buying Billing Report - This report shows billing data across direct advertiser impressions (bought
across direct publishers and real-time inventory).
- Seller Billing Report - This report shows billing data across direct publishers (sold across direct
advertisers and other platform buyers).
•
TimeZone Breakdown - Select the time zone for which you want to pull data. (This is only available for
the Geo Analytics Report. Billing data are always based in the UTC Time Zone.)
•
Data Stream Type - Select one of the available Data Stream Types you want to map your data to. You
can only select one type of Data Stream Type in any given AppNexus Reports API Data Stream. You can
map into the following Data Stream Types:
- Ads
- Conversion Tag
- Generic
Known Issues
Currently, you can’t pull data older than 45 days in AppNexus Reports.
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the AppNexus platform for the required date range.
•
Process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions
and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Apple News Publisher API Connector
Apple News Publisher places ads in Channels in the Apple News App on iPhone and iPad.
•
Channel: Display
190

=== PAGE 195 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
•
Access Token
•
Certificate
•
Private Key
To obtain the these credentials from the Apple News platform, go to the ‘API’ tab on the ‘Account’ page.
Then, click Create Key to generate a new API Key. After a key has been created, you will receive a ZIP file
containing an Access Token, a Certificate, and a Private Key. We recommend opening the files in a Text
Editor and then copying and pasting the text as is, into the corresponding text boxes in our platform.
You can also use an existing API Key Name but note that in case you download an existing Key Name
that has already been used, the existing Access Token, Certificate, and Private Key will expire. In such a
case, you’ll have to replace the existing prerequisites in our platform with the updated ones.
Details
The API connector retrieves Campaign Performance data including Line and Ad level data. The data
includes Delivery, Conversion, and Video Measurements.
QA Your Data
Apple News platform allows you to see the performance of Ads that are associated with a single
Campaign in a single view. Our platform allows you to see the performance of Ads from different
Campaigns in a single view. Therefore, when comparing your data between the platforms make sure that
both of your views are filtered accordingly.
Apple Search Ads API Connector
The Apple Search Ads API retrieves data related to Search Campaigns advertised on Apple App Store. By
using this API, you’ll be able to retrieve standard Display data. The Dimensions and Measurements that
are pulled through the API match the data that’s displayed on each of the Ad Groups views within the
Apple Search UI.
•
Channel: Search
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
A valid Apple user with admin level permissions to an Ads Account.
191

=== PAGE 196 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Extended Properties
•
Available Breakdowns – The Breakdowns that are available in the API match the options that are
available on the left menu under the ‘Reports’ view in the Apple Search UI.
Known Issues
•
Search Keyword data is currently unavailable.
•
When a Breakdown is selected, Delivery Data might be missing for rows that are below Apple's privacy
threshold. For example, Search Terms must reach at least 10 Impressions, otherwise data won’t
appear in the reports and won’t be retrieved by the API connector. Media Cost Value is returned
regardless of Delivery Data volume.
AppsFlyer API Connector
The AppsFlyer API connector retrieves App Analytics data. Through our API, you can retrieve the data
that’s available in the Geo Daily Report in the AppsFlyer Reports section. The report includes Campaigns
data, broken down by Countries and Media Sources.
The Total Conversions measurement represents the App Installs data. Currently, we provide an
aggregated report only, therefore Event and User level data isn’t available through the API.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
•
Valid Account owner API Key – Contact your AppsFlyer representative in order to receive your Key
details.
•
App ID – The App ID represents the App for which you’re retrieving data, and can be copied from the
Apps list in AppsFlyer, or from the URL in a specific App View. App ID should be in the format
idxxxxxxxxxx .
Known Issues
AppFlyer applies API rate limit at both the Account level and the App level. We recommend that you
process AppsFlyer Data Streams gradually whenever changes are made and re-creations are required.
See AppsFlyer Help Center: Report generation quotas (rate limitations).
Automation Studio for Exporting Data from Marketing Cloud
When you’re unable to use the Marketing Cloud Intelligence API to grab granular data or a specific
dimension and then connect that data to a Granular Data Center, try Automation Studio. With
192

=== PAGE 197 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Automation Studio (a Marketing Cloud app) you can extract the granularity of data you need so you can
analyze your data with ease.
You must have a Marketing Cloud account to access Automation Studio.
•
Channel: Social, Competitive
For more information, see Automation Studio
To use Automation Studio:
11.. Log into Marketing Cloud.
aa.. Make sure you have an FTP user enabled in your account. Go to Settings > Setup > Data
Management > FTP Accounts. If you don’t have an FTP user, then add one.
22.. Create a Data Extension
In this step you need to create a data extension that is a table containing your data. There are
predefined Data Views you can use to help get a data extension.
aa.. Go to Audience Builder > Contact Builder >Create.
bb.. Name your data extension.
cc.. Add the attributes: Measurements and Dimensions.
dd.. After the data extension is created, copy the “External Key” (the value you’ll get after you’ve
completed the previous step).
33.. Create an Automation Activity
aa.. Go to Journey Builder > Automation Studio > New Automation to set-up the export of the desired
data extension to the FTP.
bb.. Select the following activities: “Schedule”, “SQL Query”, “Data Extract”, and “File Transfer”.
cc.. Define the schedule options (hourly, daily, weekly... timezone).
dd.. Refresh the data extension information.
ee.. Extract the data to a secure folder that isn’t accessible to anybody.
ff.. Transfer this file from this folder to the FTP.
44.. Define the Schedule
55.. Configure the properties of the “SQL Query” Activity
aa.. Select Create New Query Activity
bb.. Enter a name and then click Next.
cc.. Create the Query.
dd.. Select your data extension then select the Overwrite radio button.
66.. Configure the Properties of the “Data Extract” Activity
aa.. Select Create New Data Extract Activity.
bb.. Enter a Name.
cc.. Select the file naming pattern and make sure you add a valid file format to the end (valid formats:
csv or txt).
dd.. From the Extract Type dropdown list, select Data Extension Extract. Make sure you copy the File
Naming Pattern as you’ll need it in the next step.
ee.. Add the file delimiter and then select the Headers checkbox and add the “DECustomer
Key”/“External Key” (this is the key you copied earlier).
77.. Configure the Properties of the “File Transfer” Activity
193

=== PAGE 198 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
aa.. Select Create New File Transfer Activity.
bb.. Enter a Name.
cc.. In the File Action area, select the Move a File From Safehouse radio button. This is the internal
Marketing Cloud folder.
dd.. Enter the same File Pattern Name.
At this stage you have finished configuring Automation Studio. Now you have to configure the Data
Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
88.. Configure the Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
aa.. Go to Connect & Mix > Data Streams.
bb.. Select your Data Stream and edit it.
Continue to configure your Data Stream with all the parameters you defined in steps 1–6:
cc.. Define the Host/Port (this is the Marketing Cloud FTP URL).
dd.. Enter your Credentials (your User and Password.)
ee.. Set the Directory as: /export/ (this is the folder where Automation Studio generates files to).
ff.. Enter the file name you defined in step 6 in the File name wildcard match.
AWIN API Connector
AWIN is a global affiliate marketing network that delivers marketing solutions for advertisers, agencies,
and publishers around the world.
•
Channel: Affiliate
•
Data Stream Type: Ads
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
•
To connect to AWIN, you need a valid AWIN username and API Key. To retrieve your API Key:
- Visit https://ui.awin.com/awin-api or click the API credentials link in your user menu.
- On the following page, enter the password you use to log into AWIN.
- Click Show my API token to create and display your personal token, which is easily copied to the
clipboard.
Details
With the AWIN connector you can pull one of these reports:
Select the requested report in the Report Type dropdown.
•
Creative Report
•
Transaction Reporting Date Type
•
Validation Reporting Date Type
•
Publishers Performance Report
194

=== PAGE 199 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant Account and Advertisers you want to retrieve data for.
Leave the Advertisers field empty if you want to pull data for all advertisers.
Extended Properties
•
TimeZone - Select the time zone that matches your AWIN account settings.
•
Region - Select the region that matches your AWIN account settings.
•
Reporting Date Type- Select the date type you want to pull data for. There are two date types that you
can choose from:
- Transaction - This is the default date type, and is based on the date on which the transactions took
place.
- Validation - This is based on the date on which the commission payment was validated.
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the AWIN platform for the required date range. Next, process the relevant
Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions
and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Baidu API Connector
Baidu, Inc. operates as an Internet Search Provider, which offers internet search solutions and online
marketing solutions.
•
Data Stream Type:
- Ads
- Search Keywords
- Conversion Tag
- Conversion Tag with Keywords
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
•
You’ll must provide your Username, Password, and App Token (API Key). To retrieve your App Token:
- Log into the Baidu Business Developer Center.
- Navigate to the ‘Personal Center’.
- Apply for API permissions and then copy the Key.
- Enter your Username, Password, and App Token into the Authentication box.
- Under ‘Credentials’ select the Account you wish to connect to Marketing Cloud Intelligence
195

=== PAGE 200 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Extended Properties
•
Get Keyword - When this box is checked, a Keywords Report is retrieved in addition to the Ad Group
data retrieved by the API by default. This added report is mapped to the Search Keywords Data Stream
Type.
•
Get Conversions - When this box is checked, a Conversions Report is retrieved in addition to the
Adgroup data retrieved by the API by default. This added report is mapped to the Conversion Tags
Data Stream Type.
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Baidu UI for the required date range. Then, process the relevant Data
Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the exact same date range.
•
There are three types of Baidu reports that Marketing Cloud Intelligence can retrieve:
- Ad Group Report - The default report when no Extended Properties are selected
- Keywords Report - This is retrieved when ‘Get Keywords’ is selected in the Extended Properties
- Conversions Report - This is retrieved when ‘Get Conversions’ is selected in the Extended Properties
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
•
To ensure that you’ve mapped the Entity relationships correctly, filter the Baidu report for a certain
Dimension value and make sure that the list of associated Dimensions seen in the Baidu report
corresponds to what you see in Intelligence when the same filtering is applied.
•
Under the above filtering, make sure that the Measurement values are aligned as well.
Basis by Centro API Connector
Basis by Centro is a provider of enterprise software for digital advertising organizations. Its technology
platform, Basis, is the first of its kind SaaS advertising solution unifying programmatic and direct media
buying, along with workflow automation, cross-channel campaign planning, universal reporting, and
business intelligence.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Ad
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
To connect to the Centro connector, you need a valid Client ID and Client Secret.
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant Advertiser you want to retrieve data for. Select the
Brands you want to retrieve data for. If you want to retrieve data for all the advertisers leave this field
196

=== PAGE 201 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
empty.
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Centro platform for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions
and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Bing Ads API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use Bing Ads to track and manage your pay-per-click advertising Bing and Yahoo! search engines. Bing
Ads is a search channel connector, the data stream types are Ads, Conversion Tag, Conversion Tag with
Keywords, and Search Keywords. The data lagging is one day. Bing Ads data is reported in the UTC
timezone.
Create a Bing Ads Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To track and view your Pay-Per-Click advertising on Bing and Yahoo!, create a Bing Ads data stream.
The sliding window for the Bing Ads API connector is 3.
Create a Bing Ads Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To track and view your Pay-Per-Click advertising on Bing and Yahoo!, create a Bing Ads data stream. The
sliding window for the Bing Ads API connector is 3.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
To create a Bing Ads API data stream, you need a valid Bing username and password.
11.. On the Connect and Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select the Bing Ads connector.
44.. In the General section, enter your credentials and select the profile that you want to pull data for.
55.. To add a data source authentication, click Add New and enter your credentials.
66.. Set the time period for the initial data fetch. You can process data for up to the past 180 days.
77.. In the Extended Properties section, you can set these properties:
aa.. To add breakdowns for increased granularity, from the Location Breakdown dropdown, select the
breakdown. You can select only one type of location breakdown for each Bing Ads API data stream.
Each selection pulls the previous listed dataset. For example, if you select Region, the data stream
retrieves Country and Region, and if you select DMA/Metro, the data stream retrieves Country,
Region, and DMA/Metro. If you select a location breakdown, Ad and Keyword data isn’t pulled.
197

=== PAGE 202 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
bb.. To retrieve keyword data, select Get Keyword Level Data. These fields are added and mapped to the
Search Keywords data stream type:
Search Keyword Quality Score
Search Keyword Match Type
Search Keyword Key
Search Keyword
cc.. To retrieve conversion data select Get Conversions Data. These fields are added and mapped to the
Conversion Tag data stream type:
Total Conversions
Revenue
Post Click Revenue
Post Click Conversions
Conversion Tag Name
If you select Get Keyword Level Data and Get Conversion Data, a report with conversion tag and
keywords data are retrieved by default. The report is mapped to the conversion tag with keywords
data stream type.
dd.. To retrieve conversion data, select Get Impression Share Metrics. These fields are added when
selecting Get Keyword Level Data and are mapped to the Search Keyword data stream type:
Search Lost IS (rank)
Search Lost IS (budget)
Search Impression Share
ee.. To add data from Performance Max for Bing Ads, select Get Performance Max Campaigns Data.
This option adds the Campaign Type dimension, which isn’t mapped. Performance Max data is
added only in the Ads & the Conversion tag data stream type. Audience breakdown isn’t available
when Performance Max is selected.
88.. To change the mapping, click Mapping. To access the mapping at any stage, from the Create New
Stream page, click Map to Model.
99.. To define advanced settings, click Advanced Settings.
1100.. Click Create.
1111.. Check your data:
aa.. Create a report in Bing Ads for the selected date range.
bb.. Process the relevant data stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
cc.. Create an identical report or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence with the same date range,
dimensions, and measurements.
dd.. Compare and make sure that the measurement totals are aligned.
198

=== PAGE 203 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Brandwatch API Connector
Brandwatch is a Social Media Monitoring Tool that allows your business to analyze and use business
conversations from across the social web.
•
Channel: Social
•
Data Stream Type: Social Listening
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
You must provide your Brandwatch username and password. Contact your Brandwatch representative in
order to receive these credentials.
Known Issues
Due to Twitter’s legal limitations, which block the transfer of their post content to third party
applications, you won’t be able to retrieve the detailed content of Twitter Mentions into Marketing Cloud
Intelligence - but their associated Measurements are retrieved normally.
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Brandwatch UI for the required date range, as follows:
- Create a New Dashboard.
- Select the Summary Dashboard Template and the relevant Data Source.
- When it’s generated, click the Mentions tab.
- Add the relevant fields to the table by clicking Columns to the right of the screen.
- Click Apply
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same report as was
selected in the ‘Data Source’ field in Brandwatch and date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions
and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
BrightEdge API Connector
BrightEdge is an SEO and content performance marketing platform, helping customers generate more
organic traffic.
•
Channel: Search
•
Data Stream Type:
- Search Keywords
- Web Analytics
- Web Analytics Pages
199

=== PAGE 204 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
- Generic
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
To connect to BrightEdge, you need a valid username and password with API permissions. To enable API
for your user, contact your BrightEdge representative.
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant Profile you want to retrieve data for.
Extended Properties
•
Data Stream Type - Select one of the available Data Stream Types you want to map your data to. You
can only select one type of Data Stream Type in any given BrightEdge API Data Stream. You can map
into the following Data Stream Types:
- Search Keywords
- Web Analytics
- Web Analytics
- Pages
- Generic
•
Report Type - Select the Report you want to pull. The following Reports are available for retrieval:
- Keyword Group Performance
- Keyword Performance
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the BrightEdge platform for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions
and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
CallRail API Connector
CallRail is a call tracking platform.
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
API Key - Contact your CallRail representative to receive an API key.
200

=== PAGE 205 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Details
•
Validating your data can be done in two ways:
- In CallRail go to Activity > Calls > Call Log and view the data in a day granularity.
- In CallRail go to Reports > Acquisition > Calls by landing page then define your date range.
•
All fields retrieved are unmapped by default. After you save the data stream you’ll be directed to the
mapping screen. Map according to usage, for example - the connector retrieves UTM fields, however, if
these don't match your use case then there's no need to map them.
•
The data stream type you choose should correspond to the result you wish to achieve. If you wish to
analyze your calls data alone, map the data to the Generic data stream type. If you wish to view the
data along side your Paid Search data you can either map it to the Generic Data Stream type and use
Data Fusion to match it with the Paid Search data, or you can use the Conversions Data Stream type
and map the data using Custom Measurements.
•
The Date in CallRail data streams is the call date.
•
There are two call measurements - 'Total Calls' and 'Calls'.
- Total Calls - Displays all the calls made from a number in a LIFETIME format. To view this
measurement it’s best to either map it as a Dimension (with 'Update Entities Attributes' enabled) or
map it as a Measurement and display it for a specific day and a specific number. This Measurement
shouldn’t be viewed aggregated.
- Calls - The basic summable measurement.
Extended Properties
•
Get Caller Details - This checkbox is unchecked by default. After it is checked it retrieves personal data.
Call Tracking Metrics API Connector
All fields retrieved are unmapped by default. When you save the data stream you’ll be directed to the
mapping screen. Choose the relevant data stream type under the Extended Properties section.
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
•
Username and password.
•
API access is dependent on your Call Tracking Metrics plan. If you’re unsure whether you have API
access, contact you CTM representative
Extended Properties
•
Get Caller Details - This checkbox is unchecked by default. After it is checked it retrieves personal data.
•
Include calls for all sub accounts (Agency-Wide Call log)
201

=== PAGE 206 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Validate Your Data
•
In the Call Tracking Metrics platform, go to the reporting menu and click Call Reports. Choose the
date range in the filter menu and select the Dimension from the drop-down list. The default view is
without Agency Wide data, however, some dimensions change the view to include agency-wide
structure (for example 'Account').
•
In the Call Tracking Metrics platform, navigate to the Calls tab, under the Export Calls section define
the date range. If your account has Agency Wide data, change the checkbox under Filters to on. The
exported file has no measurements, however it includes all the calls for the date range selected. Check
that the number of calls matches the total calls value in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for that date
range.
Comscore API Connector
Comscore provides a comprehensive, consistent, and unique view of media consumption across media
and screens to accurately capture modern media consumption
•
Channel: Ad verification
•
Data Lag: 2 Days
Prerequisites
•
A valid Comscore username and password
Details
•
To create a view in Comscore that will correspond to the view in Marketing Cloud Intelligence choose
the relevant study and navigate to the 'Audience Reports' then select the 'Key Metrics' report. Set the
Dimensions field to 'All Placements', If you chose to retrieve creative level data instead of placement,
choose 'All Creatives'. For the best results, export the report with a daily granularity.
•
The connector supports retrieving vCE2.0 type studies. If you have vCE1 type studies you want to
update to vCE2.0, contact you Comscore representative.
•
Marketing Cloud Intelligence retrieves different Measurements from this API. However, only Gross
Impression is mapped automatically, the rest of the Measurements are available but are unmapped. If
you wish to map these Measurements, use Manual Mapping.
•
View Percentage type Measurements in a Media Buy granularity (or Creative, if you choose to retrieve
data at the Creative level instead of the placement). Beyond that level the Measurement won’t
aggregate correctly. The total value of these type of measurements will not match the value in the
source platform. If you want to view these measurements on other levels other than the Media Buy/
Creative level, create them as Calculated Measurements in the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform.
•
Target Measurements are retrieved according to the targeting set on the study level.
202

=== PAGE 207 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Extended Properties
•
Creative Level Data (instead of placement level data) - Checking this checkbox retrieves creative data
instead of Placement (Media Buy level) data.
Convertr API Connector
Convertr is a Customer Acquisition Management Platform helping publishers, brands, and agencies
improve their leads and the business model that generates them.
•
Channel: Lead Management
•
Data Stream Type: Ads, Conversion Tag, CRM, CRM Leads, Generic
•
Data Lag: 0 Days
Prerequisites
Provide the following credentials:
•
Username
•
Password
•
Client ID
•
Client Secret
•
Sub Domain - This is the Convertr subdomain you received for using the Convertr platform.
Details
•
The Convertr API retrieves the Lead Export report.
•
This connector retrieves data according to the date the lead was updated, this means that if you select
January 1 to February 1 in Marketing Cloud Intelligence, then you’re retrieving Leads that were
updated during this timeframe (and not created during this period).
Extended Properties
•
Data Stream Type - Select the Data Stream Type into which to map the data. You can map into the
following Data Stream Types: Ads CRM CRM Leads Conversion Tag Generic.
Coosto API Connector
Coosto is a social media monitoring tool.
•
Channel: Social
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
203

=== PAGE 208 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Prerequisites
Provide the following credentials:
•
Valid user & password
•
A paying account in Coosto
Details
•
API service in Coosto is a paid service, that can be purchased complementary to a Coosto Enterprise
license. For the API connection to work, you must have a paying account in Coosto.
•
There are 2 payment plans according to the number of requests available per 10 minutes, a request is
translated into a query in Marketing Cloud Intelligence. For each query, data is retrieved for the last 30
days.
•
Custom Measurements are used in the Coosto connector's mapping:
- Social Page Custom Measurement 10 is mapped to the 'Post' Measurement in Coosto
- Social Page Custom Measurement 11 is mapped to the 'Sentiment' Measurement in Coosto
•
You should change these measurements’ Display name for a more convenient use and display.
•
For the Sentiment Measurement mentioned previously to aggregate correctly, its aggregation method
should be changed to average. This is done in the measurements sub tab, in the Aggregation column.
•
If Social Page Custom Measurements 10 & 11 are already mapped in the Workspace, note that the
changes to their display name and aggregation method affects all their appearances in the Workspace.
If this is the case map the 'Post' and 'Sentiment' Measurements to a different custom measurement,
via manual mapping.
Crimson Hexigon API Connector
Crimson Hexigon is a social listening platform.
•
Channel: Social
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
Provide the following credentials:
•
Valid user & password
Criteo For Marketers API Connector
This API Connector is for Criteo's Marketers Platform.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
204

=== PAGE 209 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Prerequisites
•
Criteo username and password
•
REST API User–created under the "Account Settings" tab.
Details
When setting up Criteo in Marketing Cloud Intelligence, a Criteo login window appears. After you enter
your Criteo credentials, select all the portfolios you want Intelligence to access. From the selected
portfolios, you can later select specific entities you want to create a data stream for.
Note:
•
If you don’t select all the portfolios you will need to repeat this process for any unselected portfolios in
the future.
•
You can only select portfolios for which you have admin permission. When clicking on the consent
link, you will only be able to validate portfolios you are an Admin for.
Data 360 CI Connector
Data 360 allows you to unify all your data - from anywhere - for a complete view of your customers. The
Data 360 API connector allows you to pull either your calculated insights from Data 360 or use Marketing
Cloud Intelligence predefined insights in order to get advanced insights with a click of a button.
Note A new version of the Data 360 connector was released. This version may appear if you
previously connected to Data 360 either via the connector or the app. If you connected via the
connector, you will still see the connector in the Connect & Mix tab. It’s advised you use the new
version to avoid discrepancies.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: LiteConnect
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
Log in to Data 360, and then allow access to Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
11.. Log in to Data 360 as an Admin user.
22.. From Setup, click OAuth custom scopes.
33.. Create two custom scopes named
cdpquery
and
205

=== PAGE 210 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
cdpprofile.
44.. If you see a “This site can’t be reached” message, then you need to return to the setup screen for the
org you’re logged into.
55.. Click Allow.
66.. Navigate to Salesforce Setup.
77.. From Setup, under App manager, clickOAuth and OpenID Connect Settings and then make sure
Allow Agent-Session Linking is off.
88.. From Setup, under App manager, click Manage OAuth Custom Scopes in Customer Data Cloud.
99.. Click Install next to Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
1100.. Click Install to confirm.
Details
The connector pulls data from Data 360 in two forms:
•
Calculated Insights (CI) - After you enter your credentials, the “Source” dropdown populates with all
your calculated insights from Data 360. Select the calculated insights you wish to pull into Marketing
Cloud Intelligence. The data stream automatically builds the CI schema and pulls all of the CI’s data
into Intelligence.
•
Predefined Insights- Automatically create interesting views on top of your data, for the following 3
predefined insights:
- Demographics - The demographics predefined insight provides information on your audience by
different attributes.
- Fields - Day, Age Group, Children Count, Yearly Income Range, Country, City, Count of Individuals,
and Count of Unified Individuals.
- Engagement - The engagement predefined insight pulls different KPIs of your engagement data
model objects, like Email, Device Application and Message.
- Fields - Day, Channel, Campaign, Total Engagements (broken by engagement type), and Total
Engaging Customers (broken by engagement type).
- Conversion - The conversion predefined insight presents aggregated information on orders made.
- Fields - Day, Product, Product Category, Total Number of Orders, Total Revenue, and Number of
customers.
General Setup
11.. After entering your credentials, the Source dropdown is populated with the predefined insights and
calculated insights.
22.. Select the CI/Predefined insight you’d like to create the data stream with. There can be a delay of up
to a few hours from the time calculated insights are created in the Customer Data Platform until the
data becomes available in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
33.. In the Initial Data Fetch section, select the dates for which you want to pull data. You can only process
from the last 180 days. If you must process older data then contact Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Support.
206

=== PAGE 211 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
••
If you select a Demographics Predefined Insight or a Calculated Insight, Intelligence automatically
pulls all available data, regardless of the selected date range.
••
If you choose Engagement/Conversion Predefined Insights, Intelligence pulls data according to the
selected date range.
Notes
•
Not available in Government Cloud. See Data 360 edition availability
•
The Data Cloud API Connector allows you to view the data in your Calculated Insights and include
data in your Intelligence dashboards and reports. You can’t map the data retrieved from Data 360 to
your Intelligence data model.
•
To ensure that deleted Data 360 records are also deleted from Marketing Cloud Intelligence, make
sure that your data stream load mode is set to Total Replace. This setting ensures the replacement of
all data coming from Data 360 on a daily basis. If you choose to set your data stream load to a
different mode, deletions aren't automatically passed across apps, and you must manually delete any
data that you would like deleted from Intelligence using the Delete Data functionality in Intelligence.
•
Predefined Insights are complicated queries that scan large amounts of data. In case the data stream
process fails due to a timeout, you can create a similar calculated insight, which will do the processing
in advance, and pull the CI into Intelligence via the connector.
QA Your Data
Use the Data Explorer in Data 360 to compare the data in your calculated insights and the data pulled
into Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
DoubleVerify API Connector
Use the DoubleVerify API Connector to pull your DoubleVerify measurements and verification data.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Ads Verification
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
DoubleVerify API Token. To retrieve your Token from DoubleVerify Pinnacle:
11.. Log in to Pinnacle.
22.. Navigate to the Analytics dropdown menu and select Data API.
33.. Select Create Token.
44.. Choose the Reporting Programs for which you would like to create a token, then select Create.
55.. Copy the Access Tokens
207

=== PAGE 212 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
General Setup
To authenticate, add your Token.
(optional) Enter a meaningful name to help you
Name recognize your various DoubleVerify Data Source
Authentications.
Token Add the Token taken from the Pinnacle UI.
Extended Properties
Display and Video viewability metrics are pulled by default. If you want to pull additional metrics you can
select the desired group of the metrics from the extended properties.
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Double Verify Pinnacle platform for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions
and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Facebook Ads API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Facebook Ads is a platform on which users can purchase and manage advertising space on Facebook.
Facebook Ads is a Display channel connector. The data stream type is Ads and Conversion Tag, and data
lagging is 1 day.
Additional information about the Facebook Ads connector:
•
Marketing Cloud Intelligence retrieves the reach measurements, Reach and Social Reach, from
Facebook as part of the Facebook Ads API. It’s best practice to use Facebook Ads Custom to retrieve
unique measurements because the values in Marketing Cloud Intelligence might not match the
aggregation seen in the Facebook Ads manager platform.
•
Intelligence maps the Facebook Ads Measurements 3-Second Video Views to the Measurement Video
Views. Video Views is the sum of 3-Second Video Views [1 Day After Viewing] and 3-Second Video
Views [7 Days After Clicking].
•
Data is retrieved in the time zone set in Facebook.
Create a Facebook Ads Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To pull data and create reports for Facebook ads, create a Facebook Ads data stream.
Define Reach Data in Facebook Ads Custom API Connector
208

=== PAGE 213 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Define how to calculate reach data in the Facebook Ads custom API. Facebook uses user-level data to
calculate reach. When a date or field is adjusted in Facebook, the granularity changes, and Facebook
recalculates the reach value based on the new parameters. Processing historical reach data streams
requires unique date ranges for each process. Set a unique reach value for each day based on the
granularity. Every date must be processed separately to return the aggregated value for that date.
Mapping Reach Data for Facebook Ads Custom API in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To report reach data correctly, you must map the data correctly. Consider these best practices for
optimal results.
Set Up Age and Gender Breakdowns for Reach in Facebook Ads Custom Data Streams
To retrieve Age and Gender breakdowns properly for reach data streams you must add a formula in
the mapping.
Troubleshooting Reach Data for Facebook Ads Custom
After you set up reach, ensure that all parameters in the Facebook platform match the parameters and
granularities set in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
Create a Facebook Ads Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To pull data and create reports for Facebook ads, create a Facebook Ads data stream.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
To create a Facebook Ads API data stream, you need:
•
A valid Facebook user with View or Manage permissions
•
Access to the Ads account
11.. On the Connect and Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select Facebook Ads connector.
44.. In the General section, select the account that you want to pull data for.
55.. To add a new data source authentication, click Add New and enter your Facebook Ads credentials.
66.. Set the time period for the initial data fetch. You can process data up to the past 180 days.
77.. In the Extended Properties section, you can set these properties:
aa.. To retrieve conversion and revenue data in addition to the default delivery data, select Get
Conversions. These fields are added and mapped to the Conversion Tag data stream type:
Post Impression Revenue
Post Click Revenue
Revenue
bb.. To show conversions and revenue based on their conversion date and not the impression or click
209

=== PAGE 214 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
date, select Report Conversions on Conversion Date.
cc.. To retrieve all archived entities in Facebook Ads, select Get Archived Entities.
dd.. To add a higher level of granularity to your data report, select a breakdown from the dropdown.
(You can select only one breakdown per Facebook Ads API data stream.)
Country Adds the Country dimension to the dataset.
Age and Gender Adds ‘Age’ and ‘Gender’ to the report. (These dimensions aren’t
mapped automatically.)
Placement Breaks down the data according to ad placement for example,
Facebook Desktop News Feed or Instagram Mobile News Feed.
Selecting placement adds ‘Strategy Key’ and ‘Strategy Name’ to
your report.
Placement & Impression
Adds these dimensions to the dataset:
Device
••
Device Category
••
Strategy Key
••
Strategy Name
ee.. To determine how Revenue and Total Conversion are calculated, select an attribution setting from
the dropdown. The default is 7-day click.
88.. To change the mapping, click Mapping. You can also access mapping by clicking Map to Model at the
bottom of the Create New Stream page.
99.. To define advanced settings, at the bottom of the screen, click Advanced Settings.
Retrieve Data Hourly pulls data from the Facebook Ads API every hour.
pulls the most recent data available by Facebook
Ads, retrieving data with 0 lag days. (The time of
Include Today's Data in Retrieval
day can affect the data being pulled, resulting in
an incomplete dataset for today’s date. )
1100.. Click Create.
1111.. Quality check your data:
aa.. Create a report in Facebook Ads platform for the selected date range.
bb.. Process the relevant data stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence filtered to the same date range.
cc.. Create an identical report or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence with the same date range,
dimensions, and measurements.
dd.. Compare and make sure that the measurement totals are aligned.
ee.. Now compare the conversions data. Go to Ads Manager.
ff.. Click Reports and select Export table data.
gg.. Select the format of the exported file, and click Export.
hh.. Compare the Facebook Ads conversions to Marketing Cloud Intelligence conversions.
Conversion metrics in Marketing Cloud Intelligence are transposed. For example, in Facebook Ads
platform, each conversion type has a measurement: Lead, Purchase, View Content. In Marketing Cloud
210

=== PAGE 215 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Intelligence, to align with the data model and other platforms, the type of the conversion is returned
as a value of a Conversion Tag Category dimension, while the metric values of all conversions are
available in the Total Conversions metric.
Define Reach Data in Facebook Ads Custom API Connector
Define how to calculate reach data in the Facebook Ads custom API. Facebook uses user-level data to
calculate reach. When a date or field is adjusted in Facebook, the granularity changes, and Facebook
recalculates the reach value based on the new parameters. Processing historical reach data streams
requires unique date ranges for each process. Set a unique reach value for each day based on the
granularity. Every date must be processed separately to return the aggregated value for that date.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create and edit an API data stream: Admin
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select the Facebook Ads Custom connector.
44.. Under Extended Properties:
aa.. Set Date Resolution to Aggregated.
bb.. For the level of granularity that you want to report on, select Dimensions.
cc.. Don’t edit Measurements. Reach measurements are automatically populated.
dd.. Select the breakdowns that you want to include in the report, for example, Age and Gender.
55.. Under the Advanced section:
aa.. In the Data Refresh window, click the edit icon and set the frequency.
bb.. Set the maximum number of days a single processing statistic can span. For example, for a 30-day
retrieval and a 10-day span, a total of three statistics are created.
cc.. Set the sliding window —the number of days back that data is retrieved on a scheduled run starting
yesterday.
Mapping Reach Data for Facebook Ads Custom API in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To report reach data correctly, you must map the data correctly. Consider these best practices for optimal
results.
•
Set up an individual data stream for each granularity of reach that you want to report on.
•
Don’t include non-reach measurements because they duplicate the data.
•
Don’t map frequency because it appears incorrectly at an aggregated level. Frequency data is at the
user level and can’t be pulled at an aggregated level. To calculate frequency, create a calculated
measurement outside of the mapping for any granularity of reach that you set up. For example,
Impressions/Reach.
•
Always select lifetime as the aggregation function.
•
Map reach to a delivery custom metric that you aren’t using to easily know which granularity of reach
211

=== PAGE 216 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
you’re reporting.
Set Up Age and Gender Breakdowns for Reach in Facebook Ads Custom Data Streams
To retrieve Age and Gender breakdowns properly for reach data streams you must add a formula in the
mapping.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create and edit an API data stream: Admin
11.. In the Connect & Mix tab, select your Facebook Ads custom data stream.
22.. On the Mapping page, click Strategy key or Exchange key.
Make sure the keys are not being used elsewhere in your setup.
33.. Click the Add Formula icon, and enter: csv['fb.age']+csv['fb.gender']
44.. Click Save.
55.. To map Age, select a key custom attribute, click the Add formula icon and enter: csv['fb.age'] .
66.. Click Save.
77.. To map Gender, select a key custom attribute, click the Add formula icon and enter:
csv['fb.gender']
88.. Click Save.
Troubleshooting Reach Data for Facebook Ads Custom
After you set up reach, ensure that all parameters in the Facebook platform match the parameters and
granularities set in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
•
Date Range—Facebook reach is the number of unique users reached based on the parameters that
you set. When comparing the data, select the correct parameters in Facebook. For example, if you set
up a 31-day sliding window in Intelligence, select the 31 days before this date in Facebook. For
example, if you select April 2, select 31 days before—March 2 through April 2. Facebook displays how
many people you’ve reached by April 2, counting 31 days back.
•
Dimensions & Granularities —Select the data stream granularity to match the granularity set in
Facebook. For example, if you set up a data stream to report reach at a campaign level, select
campaign in Facebook.
Facebook Attribution API Connector
Facebook Attribution tool, a platform that gives marketers a better picture of their clients’ journey by
measuring performance across publishers, channels, devices and conversions.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Generic, Conversion Tab, Web Analytics
•
Data Lag: 1 Day
212

=== PAGE 217 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Prerequisites
To connect to the Facebook Attribution API, you need a valid Username and Password and the Business
Unit ID.
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant profile you want to retrieve data for.
Extended Properties
•
Data Stream Type - You need to choose in this dropdown the relevant bucket for your connector
•
Business ID - Insert manually your Facebook Business ID
•
Report Type ( Source / Campaign) - Select the report type you want to retrieve
•
Attribution Window - Select the attribution window
•
Credit Value - select the credit value
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Facebook platform for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions
and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they are aligned.
Facebook Ads Custom API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the Facebook Ads Custom API connector to retrieve a custom set of measurements and dimensions
from the Facebook Ads API into Marketing Cloud Intelligence. The Facebook Ads Custom API connector
facilitates the retrieval of unique measurements, such as Reach. These measurements cannot be
aggregated. This custom connector requires manual setup. The Facebook ads custom is a display channel
connector, the data stream type is ads, conversion tag, and generic. The data lagging is one day.
Additional Information for the Facebook Ads Custom Connector:
•
This API connector can also be used when creating a Granular Data Center.
•
Data is retrieved in the timezone set in Facebook.
•
Not all the attributes for all entities are available through the Facebook Ads Custom API connector, for
example, img_url.
•
The sliding window for the Facebook Ads Custom connector is 10
Create a Facebook Ads Custom Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To create a Facebook ads custom report, create a Facebook ads custom data stream.
213

=== PAGE 218 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a Facebook Ads Custom Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To create a Facebook ads custom report, create a Facebook ads custom data stream.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
To create a Facebook Ads Custom API data stream, you need a valid Facebook user account with ‘View’
or ‘Manage’ access to the Ads Account.
11.. On the Connect and Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select the Facebook Ads Custom connector.
44.. In the General section, enter your credentials, and select the account that you want to pull data for.
55.. To add a data source authentication, click Add New and enter your Facebook credentials.
66.. To add a template, select a template from the dropdown menu.
77.. Set the time period for the initial data fetch. You can process data up to the past 180 days.
88.. In the Extended Properties section, you can set these properties:
aa.. Select the data stream type you want to map your data to. Only one data stream type is selected for
a Facebook Ads custom API data stream.
bb.. Set the granularity from the Level dropdown. The level setting determines the lowest level of
granularity you want to retrieve. (Granularity affects the measurement values, in relation to the
Facebook Ads manager view.)
cc.. Set the Date Resolution granularity. When selecting Aggregated, the data is retrieved without the
Day dimension, so add a date in the mapping screen.
dd.. Select the custom dimensions you want to retrieve, separated by a comma. For more information
on the syntax and limitations, see Meta Developer Documentation: Insights API.
Note The lowest level of granularity is set in the Level section, and any custom dimensions
added on a lower level of granularity won’t affect the data. For example, if you set Campaign-
Level as the lowest level of granularity, adding Ads attributes to the list of dimensions won’t
have any effect, since the measurements retrieved are on the campaign level.
ee.. Select the custom measurements you want to retrieve, separated by a comma. Some fields indicate
that there are a group of measurements listed under one name. For example, actions. The
measurements are listed in the list link.
To retrieve specific measurements from a group, place the names inside curly brackets ({}) after the
group name and separated by a semicolon (;).
To retrieve all the available data for the specified measurement group, omit the curly brackets.
Select at least one dimension and any related dimensions to the selected measurements. For
example, if you’re retrieving the Cost or Revenue measurements, add the currency dimension so the
currency measurements are converted correctly.
214

=== PAGE 219 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
If you want to retrieve offline purchases, you can use the following syntax:
"actions{offline_conversion.purchase}"
ff.. When retrieving conversion and revenue measurements, the API pulls data for 1 day, 7 day and 28
day conversions. Map the conversion and revenue measurements that correlate to the conversion
attribution window you set in Facebook Ads.
gg.. To add a breakdown, enter the breakdown fields you want to apply to the data. For example, to see
age and gender, enter: age,gender. Some Breakdown fields can’t be combined. For more
information see the Facebook Developer page Combining Breakdowns.
hh.. To apply an Action Breakdown to your data, for example: action_type, enter the action breakdown.
To prevent discrepancies or duplications when using Action Breakdowns, place the measurements
in the measurements section.
ii.. Conversions in Facebook are reported based on the impression or click date. To configure your
report to show conversions based on their conversion date, select Report Conversions on
Conversion Date.
jj.. To retrieve all archived entities in Facebook Ads, select Get Archived Entities (Disabled with Adset
Level).
99.. To change the mapping, click Mapping. Otherwise, you can always access mapping by selecting Map
to Model at the bottom of the Create New Stream page.
1100.. To define advanced settings, at the bottom of the screen, select Advanced Settings.
1111.. Click Create.
1122.. Quality check your data.
aa.. Create a report for Facebook Post Insights for the required date range.
bb.. Process the relevant data stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence, filtered to the same date range.
cc.. Create an identical report or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence with the same date range,
dimensions, and measurements.
dd.. Compare the measurement totals to make sure that they’re aligned.
ee.. In your Ads Manager, click Reports, and then select Export table data.
ff.. Select the format of the exported file, and then click Export.
gg.. Compare the Facebook Ads conversions to Marketing Cloud Intelligence conversions.
Conversion metrics in Marketing Cloud Intelligence are transposed. For example, in Facebook Ads
platform, there is a measurement for each conversion type: Lead, Purchase, View Content. In
Marketing Cloud Intelligence, to align with the Data Model and other platforms, the type of the
conversion is returned as a value of a Conversion Tag Category Dimension, while the metric values
of all conversions are available in the Total Conversions metric.
There isn’t a view on the Facebook platform that matches the Conversions in the Conversion Date
report. To quality-check your data, compare the totals of Entities from Campaigns that have ended.
Facebook Page Insights API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use Facebook Page Insights to track user interaction on your Facebook Fan Page. Facebook Insights is
seen by all the Admins of your page to help you track the number of active users so you can better
understand your page performance. Facebook Page Insights is an organic social channel connector, the
data stream type is social objects, and the data lagging is three days.
215

=== PAGE 220 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Additional Information for the Facebook Page Insights Connector
•
Retrieving many pages results in a large amount of data, and can cause a timeout. If a timeout occurs,
reduce the number of pages per data stream.
•
Facebook Page Insight's has limitations, and you could see discrepancies in your data. For more
information on the limitations See the Facebook Developer Insights page.
•
Facebook tends to change the lagging days. If you notice missing metrics, we recommend waiting a
few days.
•
Discrepancies could occur in the "Fans(Lifetime)" Measurement when the Data Stream is set to
retrieve location breakdown. The discrepancies occur when a fan was attributed to a country, and is
now attributed to a different country.
•
If you can’t see all of the pages you manage, complete these steps in your Facebook user Settings:
- Select Business Integrations.
- Next, under Active Business Integrations, select Datorama Landing Zone.
- Under Show a list of the Pages you manage, select all the pages you want to appear.
- Save your selections.
Create a Facebook Page Insights Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To track and view Facebook Page insights, create a Facebook Page Insights data stream.
Create a Facebook Page Insights Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To track and view Facebook Page insights, create a Facebook Page Insights data stream.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
To create a Facebook Page Insights API data stream, you need a Valid Facebook user account with
permissions to manage the page.
11.. On the Connect and Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select the Facebook Page Insights connector.
44.. In the General section, enter your credentials, and select the page that you want to pull data for.
Selecting multiple pages results in a new data steam for each page selected.
55.. To add a data source authentication, click Add New and enter your Facebook credentials.
66.. Set the time period for the initial data fetch. You can process data up to the past 180 days.
77.. In the Extended Properties section, you can set these properties:
If the page requires manual page ID input, insert the page ID here. Only one ID can be entered at a
time.
aa.. To add a breakdown, select one from the dropdown. Adding a breakdown adds granularity to your
216

=== PAGE 221 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
data allowing you to gain deeper insights. (Age & Gender breakdown dimensions must be mapped
manually.)
bb.. To retrieve metrics collected over the course of 28 days select Get 28 Days Metrics.
cc.. To retrieve all the location pages you manage, as separate pages, select Get main page and
additional locations pages. The main page is labeled Main Page.
88.. To change the mapping, click Mapping. Otherwise, you can always access mapping by selecting Map
to Model at the bottom of the Create New Stream page.
99.. To define advanced settings, at the bottom of the screen, select Advanced Settings.
1100.. Click Create.
1111.. Quality check your data:
aa.. Create a report on the Facebook Page Insights platform for the required date range.
bb.. Process the relevant data stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence, filtered to the same date range.
cc.. Create an identical report or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence with the same date range,
dimensions, and measurements.
dd.. Compare the measurement totals to make sure that they’re aligned.
Facebook Post Insights API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the Facebook post insight connector to understand data on how users engage with your Facebook
post so you can make informed decisions on the content you post. Facebook post insights is social
channel connector, the data stream type and there’s no data lagging. Facebook post insights pulls data
from Graph API, and Insights.
Additional Information on Facebook Post Insights
•
The connector shows Lifetime type measurements. Lifetime measurements display the accumulated
value of the measurement for the current date.
•
When a Facebook data stream is created, all posts from the creation date of your Facebook profile are
retrieved.
•
Data streams in Lifetime aggregation do not allow for any failed retrievals to be reprocessed after a
failure.
•
Entries in the data stream log appear under the processing date of the extraction date (‘Today’).
•
There’s no option to select a specific date when processing the data stream. All data for your posts is
retrieved up until the processing date and assigned a date value that is identical to the day of
processing.
•
Measurement data retrieved for all posts is accurate as of the processing date.
•
After data is deleted from a Facebook data stream, the deleted data is not accessible for retrieval
through reprocessing.
•
To reprocess data that was retrieved in the past without deleting any data, use the Re-Run button in
the log in the data stream management menu.
Create a Facebook Post Insights Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To track and view Facebook Post insights, create a Facebook Post Insights data stream.
217

=== PAGE 222 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a Facebook Post Insights Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To track and view Facebook Post insights, create a Facebook Post Insights data stream.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
To create a Facebook Post Insights API data stream, you need a valid Facebook user account with
permissions to manage the page.
11.. On the Connect and Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select the Facebook Post Insights connector.
44.. In the General section, enter your credentials, and select the page that you want to pull data for.
Selecting multiple pages creates a new data steam for each page selected.
55.. To add a data source authentication, click Add New and enter your Facebook credentials.
66.. In the Extended Properties section, you can enter the page ID. Only one ID can be used for a single
data stream.
77.. To change the mapping, click Mapping. Otherwise, you can always access mapping by selecting Map
to Model at the bottom of the Create New Stream page.
88.. To define advanced settings, at the bottom of the screen, select Advanced Settings.
99.. Click Create.
1100.. Quality check your data:
aa.. Create a report for Facebook Post Insights.
bb.. Process the relevant data stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
cc.. Create an identical report or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence with the same dimensions,
and measurements.
dd.. Compare the measurement totals to make sure that they’re aligned.
Facebook Public (Competitive) API Connector
The Facebook Public Connector retrieves public data such as page likes, post reactions etc.
•
Channel: Social, Competitive
Prerequisites
Valid Facebook user & password
Details
•
Not all fields are mapped automatically. If you wish to include a certain field that's not mapped by
218

=== PAGE 223 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
default, use Manual Mapping.
•
Since the Facebook Public Connector retrieves public data such as page likes, post reactions etc.
validate your data by comparing it to these values for the relevant element you’re tracking on the
Facebook platform.
•
All the measurements in the Facebook Public Connector are LIFETIME measurements.
•
Since the Connector retrieves only the current date's data, you won’t be able to reprocess past dates in
Facebook Public streams.
Extended Properties
•
Enter the Facebook Pages you want to track. You can enter up to 5 pages separated by a comma. You
can use both page IDs and page names.
•
The page name can be copied from the URL.
Flashtalking API Connector
The Flashtalking API connector.
•
Channel: Display
Prerequisites
A valid Flashtalking username and password.
Details
Since FlashTalking is best processed between 18:00-06:00 UTC, Marketing Cloud Intelligence processes
it at these hours. If you choose to perform manual reprocessing note that it could take a while or fail due
to insufficient performance.
Extended Properties
•
Get Ads Level
•
Get Spotlights/Conversions
•
Get Video Metrics
Gartner API Connector
Gartner is a global research and advisory firm providing information, advice, and tools for leaders in IT,
finance, HR, customer service and support, communications, legal and compliance, marketing, sales, and
supply chain functions.
•
Channel: Search
•
Data Stream Type: Search Keywords
219

=== PAGE 224 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Data Lag: 1 day
Prerequisites
In order to connect to Gartner connector, you need a valid username, password, and API key. Contact
your Gartner representative to receive an API key.
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant profile you want to retrieve data for. You can then
select the channel you want to retrieve data for or leave the Channel box empty to retrieve data from all
channels.
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Gartner platform for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Google Ads API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the Google Ads API connector to retrieve a predefined set of dimensions and measurements from
the Google Ads API. Google Ads is a display and search channel connector. The data stream type is Ads,
and the data lagging is one day.
Additional information on the Google ads API connector:
•
When Get Keywords is selected, conversions in Marketing Cloud Intelligence can show a higher value
than the Google Ads platform. Marketing Cloud Intelligence pulls the Display Network and Search
Network keywords, whereas the reports in Google Ads include only the Search Network keyword as
part of the keyword breakdown.
Note Display Network keywords receive a Google Display Network site name.
•
The connector retrieves paused and inactive fields. It doesn’t retrieve deleted fields.
Create a Google Ads Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To manage ads on Google Ads, create a Google ads data stream.
Create a Google Ads Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To manage ads on Google Ads, create a Google ads data stream.
220

=== PAGE 225 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
To create a Google Ads API data stream, you need a valid username and password with API permissions
for each account you want to pull data for.
11.. On the Connect and Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select the Google Ads connector.
44.. In the General section, select the account that you want to pull data for.
55.. To add a data source authentication, click Add New and enter your Google Ads credentials.
66.. Set the time period for the initial data fetch. You can process data up to the past 180 days.
77.. In the Extended Properties section, set the applicable properties.
aa.. To add breakdowns for a higher level of granularity, from the Location Breakdown dropdown, select
the breakdown.
You can select only one type of location breakdown per Google Ads API data stream. Each selection
pulls the previous listed dataset. For example, if you select Region, the data stream retrieves both
Country and Region. If you select DMA/Metro, the data stream retrieves Country, Region, and DMA/
Metro.
If you select a location breakdown, AdWords Gmail measurements and impression share
measurements (Search Impr. share, Search Lost IS (rank), and Search Exact match IS) aren’t pulled.
bb.. To retrieve keyword data, select Get Keyword Level Data. These fields are added:
Keyword ID
Keyword
Match type
Search exact match IS
Final URLs
Quality score
Ad relevance
Expected clickthrough rate
Landing page experience
cc.. To retrieve conversion data, select Get Conversions Data. These fields are added and mapped to
the Conversion Tag data stream type:
221

=== PAGE 226 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Conversion tracking purpose
Conversion action name Conversions
Total conv.
Value View-through conv.
dd.. To retrieve ad data, select Get Creative Level Data. This measurement isn’t available if you select a
location breakdown. The following fields are added:
Ad ID
Ad Name
Ad Type
Destination Url
Description Line 1
Description Line 2
Display Url
Creative Final Urls
Labels
Expanded or responsive ad description
HeadlinePart1
HeadlinePart2
Creative_displayurl_path1 (Path1)
Creative_displayurl_path2 (Path2)
ee.. To pull device data and add the Device dimension, select Get Device Level Data.
ff.. To pull universal app campaign data, select Get Universal App Campaigns. Universal app campaign
data is retrieved only at the campaign level. The UACadgroup_CAMPAIGN KEY/NAME is created for
the Media Buy Key field, and the Creative Key field is given a Default value.
gg.. To pull audience data, select Get Custom Audience Data.
hh.. To add data from Performance Max for Google Ads, select Get Performance Max Campaigns Data.
88.. To change the mapping, click Mapping. To access the mapping at any stage, from the Create New
Stream page, clickMap to Model.
99.. To define advanced settings, at the bottom of the screen, select Advanced Settings.
1100.. Click Create.
1111.. Quality check your data.
aa.. Create a report in the Google Ads platform for the required date.
bb.. Process the relevant data stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence filtered to the same date range.
cc.. Create an identical report or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence with the same date range,
222

=== PAGE 227 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
dimensions, and measurements.
dd.. Compare the measurement totals to make sure that they’re aligned.
Google Ads Custom API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the Google Ads Custom API connector to retrieve a custom set of measurements and dimensions.
You can also use the Google Ads Custom connector when creating a Granular Data Center. Google Ads
Custom is a display and search channel connector, and the data lagging is one day.
Additional information on the Google Ads Custom API Connector:
•
The Google Ads Custom connector can also be used when creating a Granular Data Center.
•
The connector requires manual setup.
•
When retrieving all Search Impressions Share measurements, Marketing Cloud Intelligence treats
values, such as greater than (>) and less than (<), as a single number, to support aggregation. For
example, > 90% is treated as 90%, and <10% is 10%. Configure these special values differently in
the mapping section.
•
Deleted fields can’t be retrieved. Paused and inactive fields can be retrieved.
•
The sliding window for the Google Ads Custom API connector is 7.
•
To get weekly and monthly aggregation for unique measurements, such as Reach, contact your
Marketing Cloud Intelligence success manager.
Create a Google Ads Custom Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To create and manage Google Ads reports, create a Google ads data stream.
Create a Google Ads Custom Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To create and manage Google Ads reports, create a Google ads data stream.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
To create a Google Ads API data stream, you need:
•
A valid username and password with API permissions for each account you want to pull data for.
11.. On the Connect and Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select the Google Ads Custom connector.
44.. In the General section, select the account that you want to pull data for.
55.. To add a new data source authentication, click Add New and enter your Google Ads Custom
credentials.
66.. Set the time period for the initial data fetch. You can process data up to the past 180 days.
77.. In the Extended Properties section, select the data stream type, for example, Ads or Conversion Tag.
223

=== PAGE 228 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can select only one data stream type per Google Ads Custom API data stream.
88.. To change the mapping, click Mapping. Otherwise, you can always access mapping by selecting Map
to Model at the bottom of the Create New Stream page.
99.. To define advanced settings, at the bottom of the screen, select Advanced Settings.
1100.. Click Create.
1111.. Quality check your data:
aa.. Create a report in the Google Ads platform for the required date.
bb.. Process the relevant data stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence filtered to the same date range.
cc.. Create an identical report or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence with the same date range,
dimensions, and measurements.
dd.. Compare the measurement totals to make sure that they’re aligned.
Google Analytics API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Google Analytics is a web analytics service offered by Google that tracks and reports website traffic.
Google Analytics is a web analytics channel connector, the data stream type is web analytics, and the
data lag is one day.
Additional information for the Google Analytics connector
•
When the number of sessions exceeds 500,000, Google Analytics bases its reports on a sample of the
data. For maximum accuracy, Marketing Cloud Intelligence uses Higher Precision settings. Maximum
sample size provides the most precise representation of your data set when retrieving data from
Google Analytics.
•
This API pulls in data at the site level by default. For more detailed data, use Extended Properties.
Create a Google Analytics GA4 Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a Google Analytics GA4 data stream to track and view reports on website traffic.
Create a Google Analytics UA Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a Google Analytics data stream to track and view reports on website traffic.
Create a Google Analytics GA4 Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a Google Analytics GA4 data stream to track and view reports on website traffic.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
To create a Google Analytics GA4 API data stream requires a valid username and password with access to
at least one Google Analytics profile.
11.. On the Connect and Mix tab, click Add New.
224

=== PAGE 229 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
22.. Select the Google Analytics connector.
33.. In the General section, click Add New and enter your credentials.
44.. Next to Website select the GA4 Property that you want to retrieve data for. This API only pulls in data
at the website or App level by default.
55.. Set more properties by using Extended Properties:
Note Due to a Google Analytics limitation, there’s a limit on the number of dimensions and
measurements that can be pulled in the same query. If you encounter issues, try removing
extended properties.
aa.. Location Breakdown: Select this breakdown to add the Country dimension.
bb.. To pull page-level data, from the Get Page Levels dropdown, select the level. For example, if you
select two levels, the first two sections of the page path are extracted to two columns in your report.
Selecting all levels causes longer query times.
cc.. Get Events Data: Select to add the Web Analytics Events data stream type. These fields are added.
aa.. Event Name
bb.. Total Events
cc.. Events Value
dd.. Get Device Category Select to add the Web Analytics data stream type. These fields are added.
aa.. Device Browser
bb.. Device Category
ee.. Get Pages: Select to add the Web Analytics Pages data stream type. These fields are added.
aa.. Web Analytics Page Hostname
bb.. Web Analytics Page Path
cc.. Web Analytics Page Path Level 1
dd.. Web Analytics Page Path Level 2
ff.. Get Keywords: Select to add the Web Analytics Data Stream Type. These fields are added.
aa.. Web Analytics Keyword
bb.. Key Web Analytics Keyword
gg.. Get Campaigns: Select to add the Web Analytics Data Stream Type. This field is added.
aa.. Web Analytics Site Campaign
hh.. Map as delivery entities: This checkbox is available when Get Keywords or Get Campaigns are
selected. This selection enables data to be connected to your workspace’s delivery data. If selected,
these fields are added to the Web Analytics Data Stream Type.
aa.. Web Analytics Site Campaign
bb.. Search Keyword Key
cc.. Search Keyword
ii.. Get nonsampled data: Select to retrieve nonsampled data from Google Analytics. This capability
applies only to GA360.
jj.. Traffic Source Dimension: Use this dropdown to determine the scope in which the traffic-source
dimensions are pulled into the dataset. You can select Session-scoped dimensions or User-scoped
dimensions. For example, if you select Session-scoped, the web analytics source field is populated
with Session Source. If you select User-scoped the web analytics source field is populated with First
User. Use the Map to Model screen to check the display name and ensure your selection is correct.
66.. To view or change the mapping, click Mapping. Or you can access mapping by selecting Map to
Model at the bottom of the Create New Stream page.
225

=== PAGE 230 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
77.. To define advanced settings, at the bottom of the screen, select Advanced Settings.
88.. Save your work.
99.. Quality check your data:
aa.. Create a report in the Google Analytics platform for the required date.
bb.. Process the relevant data stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence filtered to the same date range.
cc.. Create an identical report or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence with the same date range,
dimensions, and measurements.
dd.. Compare the measurement totals to make sure that they’re aligned.
Note The sliding window for the Google Analytics API connector is 10
Note You may encounter data discrepancies when comparing your report with GA reports. If you
discover that your GA report contains dimensions and measurements that aren’t displaying in
Marketing Cloud Intelligence, try using our custom connector to include the exact same set of
dimensions and measurements that are displayed in GA reports. For more information, see
Create a Google Analytics Custom Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
.
Add Commerce Fields to Google Analytics Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Add commerce fields to your Google Analytics connector to view Product and Order level
data—displaying engagement and performance data alongside analytics data. With this view you can
learn more about your commerce marketing spend and generated revenue.
AAdddd CCoommmmeerrccee FFiieellddss ttoo GGooooggllee AAnnaallyyttiiccss
CCoonnnneeccttoorr iinn MMaarrkkeettiinngg CClloouudd IInntteelllliiggeennccee
AAdddd CCoommmmeerrccee FFiieellddss ttoo GGooooggllee AAnnaallyyttiiccss
CCoonnnneeccttoorr iinn MMaarrkkeettiinngg CClloouudd IInntteelllliiggeennccee
Add commerce fields to your Google Analytics connector to view Product and Order level
data—displaying engagement and performance data alongside analytics data. With this view you can
learn more about your commerce marketing spend and generated revenue.
The ecommerce fields are added to your Google Analytics mapping. The campaign and order ID are
connected in Google Analytics, allowing you to view a direct correlation of marketing spend to revenue
generated.
To retrieve ecommerce product and order level data, select Get Product Level Data in the Extended
Properties section of the Google Analytics connector.
Create a Google Analytics UA Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a Google Analytics data stream to track and view reports on website traffic.
226

=== PAGE 231 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
To create a Google Analytics GA4 API data stream requires a valid username and password with access to
at least one Google Analytics profile.
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, click Add New.
22.. Select the Google Analytics connector.
33.. In the General section, click Add New and enter your credentials.
44.. Next to Website, select the Google Analytics View that you want to retrieve data for.
55.. This API only pulls in data at the website level by default.
66.. Set more properties by using Extended Properties:
aa.. Location Breakdown: Select to add the Country dimension.
bb.. Get Page Levels: To pull page-level data, select the level from the dropdown. For example, if you
select two levels, the first two sections of the page path are extracted to two columns in your report.
Selecting all levels causes longer query times.
cc.. Get Goals Data: Select to add the Web Analytics Tags data stream type. These fields are added.
aa.. Web Analytics Tag
bb.. Goal Value
cc.. Goal Starts
dd.. Goal Completions
dd.. Get Events Data: Select to add the Web Analytics Events data stream type. These fields are added.
aa.. Web Analytics Event Category
bb.. Web Analytics Event
cc.. Visits with Events
dd.. Unique Events
ee.. Total Events
ff.. Events Value
ee.. Get Device Category: Select to add the Web Analytics data stream type. These Fields are added.
aa.. Device Browser
bb.. Device Category
ff.. Get Event Label Dimension: This field is added and mapped to the Web Analytics Events Data
Stream Type.
aa.. Web Analytics Event Label
gg.. Get Pages: Select to add the Web Analytics Pages data stream type. These fields are added.
aa.. Web Analytics Page Hostname
bb.. Web Analytics Page Path
cc.. Web Analytics Page Path Level 1
dd.. Web Analytics Page Path Level 2
hh.. Get Keywords: Select to add the Web Analytics Data Stream Type. These fields are added.
aa.. Web Analytics Keyword
bb.. Key Web Analytics Keyword
ii.. Get Campaigns: Select to add the Web Analytics Data Stream Type. This field is added.
227

=== PAGE 232 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
aa.. Web Analytics Site Campaign
jj.. Map as delivery entities: This checkbox is available when Get Keywords or Get Campaigns are
selected. This selection enables data to be connected to your workspace’s delivery data. If selected,
these fields are added to the Web Analytics Data Stream Type.
aa.. Web Analytics Site Campaign
bb.. Search Keyword Key
cc.. Search Keyword
kk.. Get nonsampled data: Select to retrieve nonsampled data from Google Analytics. This capability
applies to GA360.
ll.. Get Ad Content: Select to add this field to the Web Analytics data stream type.
aa.. Ad name
mm.. Get Product Level Data: This selection adds ecommerce fields to your data. You can edit the
mapping in the ecommerce tab in the Map to Model page. Your campaign is automatically
connected to the order and items purchased, creating a connection between the campaign and the
revenue that it generated.
77.. To view or change the mapping, click Mapping. Or you can access mapping by selecting Map to
Model at the bottom of the Create New Stream page.
88.. To define advanced settings, at the bottom of the screen, select Advanced Settings.
99.. Save your work.
1100.. Quality check your data:
aa.. Create a report in the Google Ads platform for the required date.
bb.. Process the relevant data stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence filtered to the same date range.
cc.. Create an identical report or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence with the same date range,
dimensions, and measurements.
dd.. Compare the measurement totals to make sure that they’re aligned.
Google Analytics Custom API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the Google Analytics Custom API connector to retrieve custom dimensions and metrics. Use custom
dimensions to collect and analyze data that Google Analytics doesn’t automatically track. You can
combine Analytics data with non-Analytics data using the custom connector. Google Analytics Custom is
a web analytics channel connector, and the data lagging is one day.
Additional information on the Google Analytics Custom connector:
•
Google Analytics Custom supports Google Analytics 4 properties.
•
You can use theAPI connector when creating a Granular Data Center.
•
When the number of sessions exceeds 500,000, Google Analytics bases its reports on a sample of the
data. For maximum accuracy, Marketing Cloud Intelligence uses Higher Precision settings when
retrieving data from Google Analytics.
•
The Google Analytics Custom connector doesn’t support data with transformers, which affects its
ability to retrieve goals data. This type of data requires transposing because the goal dimension
(referred to in the platform as tag/goal) isn’t available in the core API. Goal data in the regular Google
Analytics connector is retrieved using a series of actions that are applied in the background, including
accessing a source in addition to the Google Analytics API. These actions can’t be executed as part of
228

=== PAGE 233 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
the custom connector. Instead, you can use a scheduled report from Google Analytics that contains
the data you need and upload it using the TotalConnect connector.
•
According to the specifications of the Google Analytics API, the Google Analytics Custom connector
can bring in a maximum of seven dimensions and nine measurements.
Create a Google Analytics Custom Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To create and manage Google Analytics custom reports, create a Google Analytics custom data stream.
Create a Google Analytics Custom Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To create and manage Google Analytics custom reports, create a Google Analytics custom data stream.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
To create a Google Ads API data stream, you need:
•
A valid Google account
•
Access to at least one Google Analytics profile
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select the Google Analytics Custom connector.
44.. In the General section, select the account that you want to pull data for. To retrieve GA4 properties, in
the Website dropdown, select the GA4 property.
55.. To add a data source authentication, click Add New and enter your Google Analytics Custom
credentials.
66.. Set the time period for the initial data fetch. You can process data up to the past 180 days.
77.. In the Extended Properties section, you can set these properties:
aa.. Select the data stream type.
bb.. For the Dimensions and Measurements fields, enter the Google Analytics fields that you want to
retrieve. Separate the field names with a comma, and match the syntax specified in the GA API
Explorer on the Demos & Tools tab.
You can retrieve up to seven dimensions and nine measurements per data stream connection.
You must be able to query the dimensions and measurements that you’re retrieving together. To
confirm that you can query them together, go to the GA API Explorer. Select the dimensions and
measurements that you want to retrieve one at a time. If you can select all of them, they can be
queried together.
cc.. To get non-sampled data, select Get Non-Sampled Data.
88.. To change the mapping, click Mapping. Otherwise, you can always access mapping by selecting Map
to Model at the bottom of the Create New Stream page.
229

=== PAGE 234 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
99.. To define advanced settings, at the bottom of the screen, select Advanced Settings.
1100.. Click Create.
1111.. Quality check your data:
aa.. Create a report in the Google Ads platform for the required date.
bb.. Process the relevant data stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence filtered to the same date range.
cc.. Create an identical report or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence with the same date range,
dimensions, and measurements.
dd.. Compare the measurement totals to make sure that they’re aligned.
See Also
API Dimensions & Metrics
Google Ads Manager API Connector
Google Ad Manager, formerly known as DoubleClick for Publishers (DFP).
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Lag: 1 day
Details
The best practice is to map Google Ads Manager data to a workspace that is dedicated specifically to
publisher data. Avoid mapping sell-side data, and buy-side data in the same Workspace. Mapping sell-
side data in a different Workspace allows you to apply specific settings to that type of data only, for
example, publisher terminology (cost to revenue, media buy to placement, etc.)
Extended Properties
•
Country Breakdown - After the Country breakdown is chosen, creative and video data won’t be pulled
from Google Ads Manager.
•
Browser Breakdown - After the Browser breakdown is chosen, creative and video data won't be pulled
from Google Ads Manager.
•
Get Creative Level Data - This retrieves creative data from Google Ads Manager as long as the Get
Conversions Data checkbox is selected, it includes the following fields: Creative Click URL, Creative
Format, Creative Key, Creative Name, Creative Size.
•
Get Conversions Data - This retrieves conversion data from DFP, it includes the following fields:
Conversion Tag Category, Conversion Tag Key, Conversion Tag Name, Post Click Conversions, Post Click
Revenue, Post Impression Conversions, Post Impression Revenue, Total Conversions.
•
Get Rich Media Metrics - This retrieves Rich Media Metrics from Google Ads Manager it includes the
following fields: Rich Media Backup Images, Rich Media Display Time, Rich Media Expansion Time,
Rich Media Full Screen Impressions, Rich Media Interactive Impressions.
Google Ads Manager Custom API Connector
Google Ad Manager Custom, formerly known as DoubleClick for Publishers (DFP). Use the Google Ad
230

=== PAGE 235 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Manager custom API connector to create the dimension and metric combinations that work best for
your use cases. With the custom connector you can analyze your custom data that isn’t available in the
standard connector.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Lag: 1 day
Extended Properties
•
Data stream type - Choose the type of data set to map the report to.
•
Dimensions, measurements, dimensions attributes - specify the dimensions, dimension attributes
and measurements separated with a comma, according to the syntax and limitations as described in
Google Ad Manager documentation: https://developers.google.com/ad-manager/api/reporting
•
Filter by placement IDs - When adding a filter statement to your request, the reports only returns data
for the placements you specified in the request.
•
Filter by custom targeting key IDs - To include the 'Custom Dimension' in the dimensions box, you
must specify at least one targeting key in this box.
Google Analytics Attribution API Connector
The Google Analytics Attribution tool is available on the Google Analytics platform. It enables a view of
the conversion path a client goes through before the conversion takes place. Tracking starting in the
client's first interest until the conversion takes place, across different marketing channels.
•
Data Lag: 1 day
Prerequisites
Google Analytics credentials
General Setup
The General, Advanced, and Data Stream Custom Attributes sections setup is the same as other API
connectors.
Extended Properties
Under the Dimensions and Measurements fields enter the Google Analytics fields you wish to retrieve.
Separate the fields separated by a comma ',' and match the syntax specified in the GA API Explorer. You
can retrieve only 7 Dimensions per Data Stream connection. According to the fields chosen, select the
appropriate data stream type, you can choose either one of the Web Analytics data stream types or an
existing generic data stream type. You can’t create a new generic data stream type while setting up the
connector.
231

=== PAGE 236 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
After you click Save you’ll be directed to the mapping screen, the mapping process is the same as in the
TotalConnect connector. After you’re done mapping the fields, click Save, data is retrieved for the last 30
days.
Google Campaign Manager API Connector
Google Campaign Manager is a web-based ad management system for advertisers and agencies, which
helps you manage digital campaigns across websites and mobile.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Ads, Ads Verification, Conversion Tag
•
Data Lag: 1 day
Setup Google Campaign Manager
11.. Log in to the Google Campaign Manager platform with an Admin user.
22.. Go to "Admin" --> "User profiles".
33.. Examine the Profile of the Marketing Cloud Intelligence user whose permissions you wish to create:
••
Make sure it has an API access.
••
Note what “User role” is assigned to this user.
44.. Go to "Admin" --> "User roles"
55.. Find the User role assigned to the Intelligence user (as noted before) and edit it to match your
requirements. There are two sections in the "User role" page: “Trafficking” and “Reporting”. Make sure
you set the right permissions in both sections.
Details
•
Removed entities aren’t retrieved by the API.
•
Multiple Advertisers are retrieved in a single Data Stream.
General Setup
After an Account is selected, you can choose to retrieve a single or several Advertisers, or leave the field
empty to retrieve all.
Retrieving many Advertisers could result in a large amount of data causing a timeout. If a timeout occurs,
reduce the number of Advertisers per data stream.
Extended Properties
•
Breakdown - Select one of the available options to add further breakdowns to the data retrieved by the
API, resulting in a higher level of granularity on which the Measurements can be sliced. You can only
select one type of Breakdown in any given Google Campaign Manager API Data Stream. The following
Additional Breakdowns are available when pulling data from the Google Campaign Manager API in
232

=== PAGE 237 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
addition to the standard data being pulled:
- Country - Select to pull country data and add the Dimension ‘Country’ to the report.
- Browser and Platform Type - Select to pull browser and platform data and add the Dimensions
‘Browser/Platform’ and ‘Device Type’.
- Platform Type - Select to pull just platform data and add the Dimensions ‘Platform Type’.
- Region - Select to pull Regional data and add the Dimension ‘Region’ to the dataset.
- City - Select to pull City data and add the Dimension ‘City’ to the dataset.
- DMA/Metro - Select to pull DMA/Metro data and add the Dimension ‘Designated Market Area
(DMA)’ to the dataset.
- Zip Code - Select to pull Zip Code data and add the Dimension ‘ZIP/Postal Code’ to the dataset.
•
Get Media Cost Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve Media Cost and Planned Media Cost
Measurements.
•
Get Creative Level Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve Creative data. It includes the following fields:
- Creative ID
- Creative
- Creative Type
- Creative Click-through URL
•
Get Conversions Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve Conversion data and map to the Conversion
Tag Data Stream Type. The following fields are included:
- Activity ID
- Activity
- Activity Group
- View-through Conversions
- Click-through Conversions
- Floodlight: DFA Conversions
•
Get Revenue (Only valid when “Get Conversions Data” is checked) - Select this checkbox to retrieve
the following fields, and map to the Conversion Tag Data Stream Type:
- View-through Revenue
- Click-through Revenue
- Floodlight: DFA Revenue
•
Get Basic Rich Media Metrics - Select this checkbox to retrieve Basic Video Measurements and map to
the Ads Data Stream Type. The following fields are retrieved:
- Backup Image
- Rich Media Clicks
- Rich Media Impressions
- Video Completions
- Video Views
•
Get Advanced Rich Media Metrics - Select this checkbox to retrieve Advanced Video Measurements,
and map to the Ads Data Stream Type. The following fields are retrieved:
- Full-Screen Video Completions
- Full-Screen Video Plays
- Total Display Time
- Expansion Time
- Full-Screen Impressions
- Interactive Impressions
233

=== PAGE 238 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
- Video Companion Clicks
- Video Full-Screen
- Video Interactions
- Video Replays
- Video Stops
- Expansions
- Total Interactions
- Total Interaction Time
- Video First Quartile Completions
- Video Midpoints
- Video Third Quartile Completions
- Video Mutes
- Video Pauses
- Video Plays
- Video Skips
- Video Unmutes
•
Get Cross Device Conversions (Only valid when "Get Conversions Data" is checked) - Select this
checkbox to retrieve the following fields and map to the Conversion Tag Data Stream Type:
- Click-through Conversions + Cross-Environment
- Click-through Revenue + Cross-Environment
- Click-through Conversion Events + Cross-Environment
- Total Conversions + Cross-Environment
- Total Revenue + Cross-Environment
- Total Conversion Events + Cross-Environment
- View-through Conversions + Cross-Environment
- View-through Revenue + Cross-Environment
- View-through Conversion Events + Cross-Environment
•
Get ViewAbility (ActiveView) Metrics - Select this checkbox to retrieve the following fields and map to
the Ads Verification Data Stream Type:
- Eligible Impressions
- Impressions Visible 10 Seconds
- Measurable Impressions
- Viewable Impressions
- Average Viewable Time Seconds
- Impressions Audible and Visible At Completion
- Not Measurable Impressions
- Not Viewable Impressions
•
Get DBM Cost - If you've set up the connection between Google Display & Video 360 and Google
Campaign Manager (can be done in DV360), you can retrieve the 'DV360 Cost' Measurement in your
Data Stream, which is mapped to the Ads Data Stream Type. Note: This measurement is pulled only
when the Breakdown settings are set to 'None', 'Country' or 'Region'. When the Breakdown is set to
anything else the DV360 Cost Measurement won’t be retrieved.
•
Remove Unsupported Metrics - Select this checkbox to stop Marketing Cloud Intelligence from pulling
an unsupported measurement from the API, and therefore preventing the retrieval from failing.
234

=== PAGE 239 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
How to QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Google Campaign Manager platform for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions
and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they are aligned.
Google Campaign Manager Custom API Connector
Google Campaign Manager Custom, is a web-based ad management system for advertisers and
agencies, which helps you manage digital campaigns across websites and mobile platforms.
Google Campaign Manager Custom API connector allows you to retrieve a custom set of Measurements
and Dimensions from the Google Campaign Manager API into Marketing Cloud Intelligence. The Google
Campaign Manager Custom API connector enables the retrieval of Measurements that aren’t available
through the standard API, such as fields from the Floodlight Report, Landing Page URL, Dynamic
Elements, etc.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type:
- Ads
- Conversion Tag
- Conversion Tag with Keywords
- Generic
- Search Keywords
•
Data Lag: 1 day
Details
•
Removed entities aren’t retrieved by the API.
•
Multiple Advertisers are retrieved in a single Data Stream.
•
If you’re defining a Reach report you must select the Advertiser Dimension (both in the Google
platform and Intelligence API).
•
Due to limitations on the provider’s end, Google Campaign Manager Floodlight Reports can only be
retrieved up to 62 days back.
•
If you’re defining a Floodlight report you must make sure you have a Floodlight CID, see the following
for more information.
•
To create a Dimension only Data Stream, you must do the following: select at least one Measurement
in the Fields section under the General section and select the Only Update Dimensions checkbox
under the Advanced Settings section. Otherwise, if only Dimensions are selected without a
Measurement and without checking the checkbox, the Data Stream will fail.
•
This connector doesn’t support fetching floodlight variables. If you require floodlight variable
consumption use a TotalConnect data stream instead. For more information, see Create a Data Stream
with TotalConnect in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
235

=== PAGE 240 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
General Setup
After an Account is selected, choose the Report Type you want to retrieve. The following Report Types are
available:
•
Floodlight
- If your Floodlight ID isn’t shared between different advertisers, then you must make sure your
Floodlight CID is the same as the Advertiser's ID to avoid any issues. For more information about
Floodlight IDs and configurations, visit Google Support.
•
Reach
•
Standard
After you’ve selected the relevant Report Type, select the fields you want to retrieve from the dropdown.
Extended Properties
•
Data Stream Type - Select one of the available Data Stream Types you want to map your data to. You
can only select one type of Data Stream Type in any given Google Campaign Manager Custom API
Data Stream. You can map into the following Data Stream Types:
- Ads
- Conversion Tag
- Conversion Tag with Keywords
- Generic
- Search Keywords
•
Advertisers - Insert the Advertiser IDs you want to retrieve, separated by a comma. If you want to
retrieve all Advertisers, then leave this box empty. Note: Retrieving many Advertisers could create a
large amount of data and cause a timeout. If this happens, reduce the number of Advertisers per data
stream.
•
Floodlight Configuration ID - Insert the Floodlight ID for which you want to retrieve data. This field is
mandatory if you want to retrieve the Floodlight report.
Known Issues
•
Because the Floodlight Report is a large report, it can take longer to process. Selecting many fields or a
larger date-range can result in the query timing out and displaying an error such as: "Provider Report
Timeout in the Data Stream Log".
•
If you have large amounts of data, break it down into smaller retrievals, either by selecting smaller
groups of Dimensions or by reducing the Statistic Span days. Contact Support if you want to
implement this.
How to QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Google Campaign Manager platform for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
236

=== PAGE 241 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions
and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Google Display and Video 360 API Connector
Google Display & Video 360 is a Demand-Side-Platform (DSP) providing global Display Media Buying
across Ad Exchanges. Google Display & Video 360 (DV360) was formerly known as DoubleClick Bid
Manager (DBM).
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Ads, Conversion Tag
•
Data Lag: 1 day
Prerequisites
To connect to Display & Video 360, you need a valid DV360 username and password with at least ‘Read
Only’ permissions or higher.
Details
Note The API connector retrieves only campaigns that have associated creative data. Campaigns
without creative data are not included.
•
Marketing Cloud Intelligence pulls data from the ‘General Report’ in DV360.
•
This connector doesn’t retrieve Display & Video 360 Trueview data. Intelligence retrieves all available
Cost Measurements, however, only the Revenue Measurement is automatically mapped, the
remaining Measurements must be mapped manually.
•
Cost Measurements are retrieved by default according to the advertiser’s currency and not according
to the partner’s currency. You can retrieve Cost Measurements in the partner’s currency by selecting
the relevant checkbox in the Extended Properties
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant Partner you want to retrieve data for.
•
To retrieve all Advertisers, leave the Advertiser box empty.
•
If you want to retrieve data for a specific Partner or Advertiser then select the relevant Partner or
Advertiser from the respective list. If either list doesn’t populate automatically, or you can’t find the
Partner or Advertiser that you want to retrieve data for, enter the Partner and/or Advertiser IDs into
the Override Partner Id and/or Override Advertiser Ids section under Extended Properties.
237

=== PAGE 242 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Extended Properties
•
Override Partner Id - Enter the Partner Ids you want to pull data for. Use this section if the Partner list
didn’t populate automatically, or you can’t find the Partner that you want to retrieve data for under the
General Settings section. (see General Setup).
•
Override Advertisers Ids - Enter the Advertiser Ids you want to pull data for. Use this section if the
Advertiser list didn’t populate automatically, or you can’t find the Advertiser that you want to retrieve
data for under the General Settings section. (see General Setup). Insert multiple Advertisers IDs by
separating them with a comma.
•
Breakdown - Select one of the available options to add further breakdowns to the data retrieved by the
API, resulting in a higher level of granularity on which the Measurements can be sliced. You can only
select one type of Breakdown in any given API Data Stream. The following Breakdowns are available
when pulling data from the DV360 API in addition to the standard data being pulled:
- Device - Select to pull device data and add the Dimensions ‘Device Type’ and ‘Browser’.
- Country - Select to pull country data and add the Dimension ‘Country’.
- Device & Country - Select to pull both device and country data and add all of the above mentioned
added Dimensions.
•
Get Partner Currency Cost Metrics - Select this checkbox to retrieve Cost Measurements in the
partner’s currency in addition to the advertiser’s currency. These Measurements are unmapped by
default. You can map them using Manual Mapping. The following Cost Measurements are added:
- partnerCurrency
- mediaCostPartnerCurrency
- profitPartnerCurrency
- revenuePartnerCurrency
- totalMediaCostPartnerCurrency
•
Get Conversions Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve Conversion data. The following fields are added
to the Conversion Tag Data Stream Type:
- DV360 Activity ID
- Post Click Revenue
- Post View Revenue
- Post Click Conversions
- Post Impression
- Conversions Total
- Conversions
- FloodlightActivityID
- inventorySourceType
•
Get ActiveView Metrics - Select this checkbox to retrieve ActiveView data. The following fields are
added to the Ads Verification Data Stream Type:
- Active View: Viewable Impressions
- Active View: Measurable Impressions
•
Get Video Metrics - Select this checkbox to retrieve video data. The following fields are added to the
Ads Data Stream Type:
- First-Quartile Views (Video)
- Midpoint Views (Video)
- Third-Quartile Views (Video)
238

=== PAGE 243 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
- Complete Views (Video)
Known Issues
•
Due to a limitation with the DV360 API some data might not load as fast as it does with other
connectors, which could cause the Data Stream to time out and fail.
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Google Display & Video 360 platform for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions
and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they are aligned.
Google Display and Video 360 TrueView API Connector
TrueView line items allow you to create video campaigns with a range of formats to engage customers on
YouTube and across the web on partner sites and apps.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Ads
•
Data Lag: 1 day
Prerequisites
In order to connect to Display & Video 360 TrueView, you need a valid DV360 TrueView username and
password with at least ‘Read Only’ permissions or higher.
Details
•
Marketing Cloud Intelligence pulls data from the ‘TrueView Report’ in DV360 TrueView.
General Setup
•
After entering your credentials, select the relevant Partner you want to retrieve data for.
•
To retrieve all Advertisers, leave the Advertiser box empty.
•
If you want to retrieve data for a specific Partner or Advertiser then select the relevant Partner or
Advertiser from the respective list. If either list doesn’t populate automatically, or you can’t find the
Partner or Advertiser that you want to retrieve data for, enter the Partner and/or Advertiser IDs into
the Override Partner Id and/or Override Advertiser Ids section under Extended Properties (see
Extended Properties).
239

=== PAGE 244 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Extended Properties
•
Override Partner Id - Enter the Partner Ids you want to pull data for. Use this section if the Partner list
didn’t populate automatically, or you can’t find the Partner that you want to retrieve data for under the
General Settings section. (see General Setup).
•
Override Advertisers Ids - Enter the Advertiser Ids you want to pull data for. Use this section if the
Advertiser list didn’t populate automatically, or you can’t find the Advertiser that you want to retrieve
data for under the General Settings section. (see General Setup). Insert multiple Advertisers IDs by
separating them with a comma.
•
Additional Breakdown - Select one of the available options to add further breakdowns to the data
retrieved by the API, resulting in a higher level of granularity on which the Measurements can be
sliced. You can only select one type of Breakdown in any given Google Display & Video 360 TrueView
API Data Stream. The following Additional Breakdowns are available when pulling data from the
DV360 TrueView API in addition to the standard data being pulled:
- TrueView Ad - Select to pull TrueView ad data and add the DimensionsTrueView Ad ID and TrueView
Ad to the dataset.
- Device Type - Select to pull device data and add the Dimension ‘Device Type’ to the dataset.
Known Issues
•
Due to a limitation with the DV360 API some data might not load as fast as it does with other
connectors, which could cause the Data Stream to time out and fail.
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Google Display & Video 360 platform for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions
and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Google My Business API Connector
The Google My Business API connector retrieves data related to listings of businesses that are advertised
on Google.
By using this API, you are able to retrieve both your Business details, including your business’ name,
photos, phone number and more, and your listings performance - such as the following actions that
were made, including calls, driving directions requests and more.
Note According to a recent update from Google, their API now provides a more precise
representation of data, showcasing solely the number of unique impressions and engagements.
This can cause a discrepancy in your data.
240

=== PAGE 245 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Channel: Social Earned
•
Data Lag: 1 day
Prerequisites
Valid User & Password
Details
•
When using Generic Data Stream Type, it is recommended to map the ‘locationName’ field as the
Main Entity Key for the Insights report, and the ‘reviewID’ for the Reviews report.
•
The newly added ‘Location Selector’ will allow you to add up to 20 locations by which the data will be
broken down by.
•
You can only process data up to 18 months back from the requested date.
General Setup
In the Extended Properties section, choose one of the two available reports then choose the appropriate
Data Stream Type. If you decide to map the data using the 'Generic' data stream type, please refer to the
'Details' section of this article for a mapping best practice.
The available reports are:
•
Location Insights – This report will retrieve the data that’s displayed under the ‘Insights’ tab in Google
My Business platform, including the following views:
- “Where customers view your business on Google”
- “Customer actions”
- “Phone calls”
•
Reviews –This report will retrieve the data that’s displayed under the ‘Reviews’ tab in Google My
Business platform.
Google Search Console API Connector
Google Search Console is a free service offered by Google that helps you monitor, maintain, and
troubleshoot your site's presence in Google Search results.
•
Channel: Search
•
Data Stream Type: Web Analytics
•
Data Lag: 3 days
Prerequisites
To connect to Google Search Console, you need a valid username and password with access to a Google
Search Console account.
241

=== PAGE 246 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Details
•
There can be a discrepancy in Total values when querying the Top Results entity. This is because the
Google Search Console only displays 1000 results in their platform, whereas Marketing Cloud
Intelligence retrieves all results. The value per row will be identical, but the Total value could be
different.
•
The sliding window for the Google Search Console API connector is 3.
•
Click here to learn about the differences in methodology used to calculate the Query Report (site
aggregation) vs. the Page Report.
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant website you want to retrieve data for.
Extended Properties
•
Breakdown- Select one of the available options to add further breakdowns to the data retrieved by the
API, resulting in a higher level of granularity on which the Measurements can be sliced. The following
Breakdowns are available when pulling data from the Google Search Console, besides the standard
data being pulled:
- Country - Select to pull country data and add the Dimension ‘Country’ to the dataset.
- Device - Select to pull device data and add the Dimension ‘Device’ to the dataset.
- Device & Country - Select to pull both Country and Device data and add the Dimensions ‘Country’
and ‘Device’ to the dataset.
•
Report Entity- Select the entities you want to display your data by. The following options are available:
- Page and Query - Display your data by both your page and query entities.
- Page - Display your data by your page entities.
- Query - Display your data by your query entities.
- None - Display your data not aggregated by any reporting entity.
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Google Search Console platform for the required date.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions
and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Has Offers by Tune API Connector
Has Offers by Tune is a Performance Marketing Platform and an Affiliate Network.
•
Channel: Affiliate
•
Data Stream Type: Ads
242

=== PAGE 247 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Data Lag: 1 day
Prerequisites
API key and Network ID. To retrieve your API Key and Network ID:
11.. Log in to your Has Offers Account
22.. Click on ‘Support’ to the left of the screen
33.. Select ‘API’. You should now see your Network ID, API Key and API Domain.
44.. Has Offer require you to list all IPs that will access the API. Enter the following IP address to add the IP
Addresses relevant to your region:
••
US Environment:
54.83.10.143
54.83.10.155
54.83.57.26
54.163.226.11
54.83.31.176
54.225.94.111
54.225.94.116
52.4.199.170
34.231.53.216
34.237.132.144
35.169.235.99
34.225.211.155
34.194.224.126
54.157.67.145
••
EU Environment:
52.28.211.106
52.58.90.172
52.28.190.64
52.59.78.109
18.196.162.52
18.196.154.206
Setup Process
•
After authentication, the Account field will be automatically populated, but you will need to manually
select the Advertisers for which you wish to retrieve data.
•
You can select up to 3 Advertisers or leave the field empty if you wish to retrieve all data for all
Advertisers. Note that if you have hundreds of Advertisers, pulling all of them may be heavy and time
out, if this happens split the streams and get only active Advertisers.
243

=== PAGE 248 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Details
Marketing Cloud Intelligence pulls the following Dimensions and Measurements via this API:
Has Offers Field Intelligence Field Type
All Stream Types
Date_id Day Dimension
Browser Device Browser Dimension
Offer_id Campaign Key Dimension
Offer Campaign Name Dimension
Advertiser_id Campaign Advertiser ID Dimension
Advertiser Campaign Advertiser Dimension
Offer_id + ‘_’ + affiliate_id Media Buy Key Dimension
Offer Media Buy Name Dimension
Payout_type Media Buy Cost Model Dimension
Affiliate_id Site Key Dimension
Affiliate Site Name Dimension
Affiliate_manager Site Custom Attribute 01 Dimension
Currency Currency Attribute
Ads Data Stream
Impressions Impressions Measurement
Gross_clicks Clicks Measurement
Cost Media Cost Measurement
Conversion Tag Data Stream
Conversions Total Conversions Measurement
Revenue Revenue Measurement
Unmapped
244

=== PAGE 249 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Has Offers Field Intelligence Field Type
Clicks
Affiliate_reference_id
Affiliate_source
Campaign
Creative
Goal
Goal_id
Offer_url
Revenue Type
Some Dimensions within the Has Offers API are mapped twice - for example, ‘Offer’ is mapped to both
Media Buy Name and to Campaign Name.
How To QA Your Data
Whenever you are creating a report in the UI in order to compare it with the data in Marketing Cloud
Intelligence, be sure that you are using the same Dimensions as to what has been defined for the
relevant Data Stream in Intelligence.
11.. Click on ‘Reports’ to the left of the page
22.. Select any Report from the list (‘Daily Report’ and ‘Advertisers’ is recommended)
33.. Ensure all the relevant Dimensions and Measurements are selected and match the data you are
retrieving via the Has Offers Data Stream in Intelligence.
44.. Next create a Pivot Table in Intelligence that has the same Date Range.
55.. Compare the Measurement Totals between the Has Offers Report and the Intelligence Pivot Table -
applying relevant filters to both views and making sure the Totals still match.
Hubspot API Connector
Hubspot is a marketing automation tool, Marketing Cloud Intelligence currently supports only Email
Marketing data.
•
Channel: Email Marketing
Prerequisites
Hubspot Credentials
245

=== PAGE 250 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Details
•
Data is retrieved at the Campaign and Email Subject level
•
The measurements in Hubspot are all LIFETIME measurements
•
Since the report available in Hubspot displays only the most current data, you won’t be able to
reprocess past dates in Hubspot streams. Processing past date retrieves the most current data.
•
To validate your data go to 'Email' section under the 'Content' tab, then navigate to the 'Analyze'
section, scroll down to the second segment under 'Email Performance' and switch to the 'Campaigns'
view. You can validate the data at the overview level or look into a specific campaign.
•
Be aware when validating the data that having more than one Campaign with the same Email Subject
affects the data view.
Innovid API Connector
Innovid API Connector
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Lagging: 2 days
Prerequisites
A valid Innovid username and password with API permissions. To enable API for your user, contact your
Innovid representative.
Note There’s a 90-day limit for customers on processing the Innovid API
Extended Properties
•
Get Viewability Data - retrieves ad verification data.
Interaction Studio API Connector
Use the Interaction Studio API connector to explore and pull personalization data from your Marketing
Cloud Personalization (formerly Interaction Studio) Data Warehouse.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API connector: Admin
Note The Personalization Data Warehouse is available only for customers who have already
purchased the Marketing Cloud Personalization - Data Warehouse add-on product.
246

=== PAGE 251 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
11.. Get your Marketing Cloud Personalization credentials for Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
aa.. Log into Personalization.
bb.. On the left, click Security and then select Manage Data Warehouse.
cc.. Copy the connectionString from the top of the screen.
dd.. Create a user for Marketing Cloud Intelligence. You need the User name and Password to set up the
connector in Intelligence.
ee.. In the Data Warehouse IP allow-list, add these IP addresses:
PLATFORM.DATORAM PLATFORM- PLATFORM- PLATFORM-
A.COM (AWS US) US2.DATORAMA.COM EU.DATORAMA.COM EU2.DATORAMA.COM
(AZURE US) (AWS EU) (AZURE EU)
54.163.226.11 20.41.43.59 35.157.8.65 40.67.249.123
54.83.10.143 20.44.73.165 54.93.174.35 52.155.226.154
54.227.219.146 40.65.212.209 52.155.230.152
22.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Connect & Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
33.. Click Add New and select the Interaction Studio connector.
44.. Enter this information:
aa.. Host: client-TestClientName.abn45544mmvmvmg.eu-central-1.redshift.amazonaws.com
bb.. Port: 5439
cc.. Database: TestDatabaseName
55.. Click the edit button and paste the connection string from Personalization.
66.. In the User and Password fields, add the details for the user you created in Personalization.
77.. Find your datasets in Personalization.
aa.. Click the database icon near your profile name (1).
bb.. Click Manage Datasets (2).
88.. Create the query for the datasets you found in step 7 using this pattern: select * from
dataSetName . For example, select * from dataSetName.users .
99.. Click Evaluate to test the query, and then click Next.
Instagram by Facebook Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The Instagram by Facebook API connector retrieves lifetime post data from Instagram using Facebook’s
247

=== PAGE 252 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
graph API. This connector pulls a larger variety of measurements, such as organic impressions. Instagram
by Facebook is a social channel connector, the data stream type is social objects, and there’s no data lag.
Additional Information Regarding Instagram by Facebook
•
Only Instagram business accounts are supported, personal accounts can't be used.
•
The connector shows LIFETIME type measurements. LIFETIME measurements display the
accumulated value of the measurement as of the current date.
•
When an Instagram data stream is created, all posts from the creation date of your profile are
retrieved.
•
Entries in the data stream log appear under the extraction date’s processing date, which is listed as
Today.
•
When processing the data stream, there’s no date selection because data for all posts are retrieved
until today and assigned a date value that matches the processing day.
•
Measurement data retrieved for all posts is accurate as of the processing date.
•
To prevent potential data inaccuracies, data streams in LIFETIME aggregation don’t allow for any failed
retrievals to be reprocessed post-failure.
•
After data is deleted from an Instagram data stream, the deleted data isn’t accessible for retrieval
through reprocessing.
•
To reprocess data retrieved in the past without actually deleting any data, for example, to
accommodate changes in mapping, use the Re-Run Files option.
Create an Instagram by Facebook Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To create and manage Instagram reports, create an Instagram by Facebook data stream.
Create an Instagram by Facebook Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To create and manage Instagram reports, create an Instagram by Facebook data stream.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: ADMIN
To create an Instagram by Facebook data stream you need a valid Facebook username and password and
Instagram and Facebook accounts linked to each other.
11.. On the Connect and Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select the Instagram by Facebook connector.
44.. In the General section, select the account that you want to pull data for.
Note Only Instagram business accounts are supported, personal accounts can't be used.
55.. To add a new data source authentication, click Add New, and enter your Instagram credentials.
66.. In the Extended Properties set these properties.
248

=== PAGE 253 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
aa.. To pull data for a specific page, enter the page ID.
bb.. To retrieve social interaction metrics for Instagram Stories select Get Stories Insights. This checkbox
adds story data to your Instagram by Facebook data stream. You may need to re-authenticate your
Instagram credentials to see the stories.
The API only reports organic interaction metrics—interactions on ads containing a media object are
not counted.
Data becomes available only after you check the checkbox. Historical story data is not available.
Insight stories are collected by webhook notifications. Story data is sent to your data stream after
the story expires. It may take up to 48 hours from the first set up until you see story insights in your
stream.
77.. If you must change the mapping, click Mapping. You can always access mapping by selecting Map to
Model at the bottom of the Create New Stream page.
88.. To define advanced settings, at the bottom of the screen, select Advanced Settings.
99.. Click Create.
1100.. Quality check your data.
aa.. Create a report in Facebook for the required date.
bb.. Process the relevant data stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence, filtered to the same date range.
cc.. Create an identical report or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence with the same date range,
dimensions, and measurements.
dd.. Compare and make sure that the measurement totals are aligned.
Instagram Public API Connector
The Instagram Public (competitive) API allows you to get basic metadata and metrics for other
Instagram Business Accounts.
•
Channel: Social, Competitive
•
Data Stream Type: Competitive
Prerequisites
A valid Facebook Username and Password connected to a Facebook Page linked to an Instagram
Business Account. See Meta Developer Documentation: Instagram APIs.
Details
•
Not all fields retrieved via the API are mapped automatically. If you wish to include a certain field that
isn’t mapped by default, use Manual Mapping
•
All the Measurements in the Instagram Public API are aggregated as LIFETIME (LIFETIME aggregation
means that Measurements hold the total accumulated value up until the current date.)
•
Since this connector only retrieves the data for the date of retrieval, you can’t reprocess past dates in
Instagram Public Data Streams.
249

=== PAGE 254 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Known Issues
The Instagram API Connector can only retrieve data for Instagram Business Accounts and not private
Instagram Accounts. There are two ways to tell if the account is a business account:
•
The Business Type is listed directly under the account’s name.
•
The account’s profile includes the 'Email', 'Directions', or 'Call' buttons.
Extended Properties
Instagram Account Name: Enter the Instagram Account Name you wish to track. You can enter up to 5
Instagram Business Account Names per Data Stream, separated by a comma. The Instagram Account
Name appears at the top of the Instagram page.
How to QA
•
In Instagram, click the relevant element, such as the post you’re comparing, and check its totals for
the Measurements retrieved by the Instagram Public API.
•
Compare those Measurement totals to the totals you see in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same
element.
Integral Ad Science API Connector
IAS is an Ad Verification Vendor displaying Viewability, Ad Safety, and Ad Fraud data.
•
Channel: Ad Verification
•
Data Stream Type: Ads Verification
•
Data Lagging: 1 day
Prerequisites
To connect to IAS, you need a valid IAS username and password.
Details
•
Data is retrieved on the Campaign, Media Partner, and Placement level for all media types.
•
The Basic IAS measurements are automatically mapped, however many measurements are unmapped
as well.
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant Team you want to retrieve data for. This correlates to
the teams in the IAS platform
250

=== PAGE 255 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Extended Properties
•
Report Type - Select the IAS report you want to retrieve data for. You must have permission to generate
the report in the Excel Reports section in IAS for it to be available to you in Marketing Cloud
Intelligence.
- The following reports are supported for Campaign Monitoring:
- 3MS Viewability - MRC mandated data set that uses measured impressions as the denominator,
providing clients with a tangible in-view number.
- Campaign Viewability - Report that shows the data behind the ability for a digital ad to be seen by
an actual consumer. Extrapolated report that uses data science to provide clients and with an in-
view percentage across all unblocked impressions. This report includes custom metrics to help
provide additional detail.
- Adsafe Monitoring - Brand Safety level reporting that reports back on Risk Level analysis of a
campaign and its ads.
- Country Compliance - Ads Tracked by Country Location in which they were served.
- DMA Compliance - Ads Tracked by Sub Region in the Country’s in which they were served. (Sub
Regions vary by Country. (that is, USA’s Sub Regions are States)).
- Device Type - Ads Tracked by device on which they were served (that is, Laptop/Desktop, Mobile,
Tablet).
- Traq Score - TRAQ (True Advertising Quality) score. TRAQ combines critical variables - Ad Fraud,
Viewability, Brand Safety, Ad Clutter, and Professionalism - to offer the most comprehensive
appraisal of media quality. You can target web pages based on scores ranging between 250 and
1,000, with higher scores meaning higher quality.
- Suspicious Activity - Suspicious Activity Report is an aggregated report that provides data on
suspicious imps, non-suspicious, their percentages, and the different types of bot impressions
seen per campaign for a given time period.
- Facebook Display Viewability - Detailed analysis for advertisers who want to see Facebook
campaign performance in terms of Display Viewability.
- Facebook Video Viewability - Detailed analysis for advertisers who want to see Facebook
campaign performance in terms of Video Viewability.
- Overview - A summary view of metrics from various detailed reports. Overview Report doesn’t
report on any new metrics, all metrics are from Fraud Report, Brand Safety Report, or Viewability
Report.
- Viewability - IAB and MRC reporting that shows a detailed analysis of data with the removal of
fraudulent data from ads that weren’t shown to a human due to bot activity, pixel stuffing, could
never be in view, etc.
- Brand Safety - Reporting that provides a detailed analysis of ads categorized by the 7 Brand Safety
Content categories.
- Ad Fraud - Reporting that provides a detailed analysis of any deliberate activity that prevents the
proper delivery of ads to the intended people, at the right time, and in the right place.
- The following reports are supported for Firewall:
- Facebook Display Viewability
- Facebook Video Viewability
- Overview
- Viewability
251

=== PAGE 256 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
- Brand Safety
- Ad Fraud
•
IAS Product - Select the IAS product you want to retrieve data for. The following products are
supported:
- Campaign Management
- Firewall Note that if the selected product doesn’t correspond to the team's settings, the Data Stream
processing will either fail or retrieve zero rows, depending on your user permissions.
Known Issues
•
The IAS vendor operates in US hours. US hours may not be compatible with your time zone processing
hour, which can lead to incomplete data for the previous day. The following run the next day should
retrieve the full data for the incomplete day.
•
Some ‘Firewall’ reports have been deprecated from both the IAS platform and API, therefore when
trying to process these deprecated Data Streams the following error message appears:
*PROVIDER_INTERNAL_ERROR,Message=The report isn’t supported in Firewall Product*
How to QA
•
To QA your data, generate a compatible report in the 'Excel Reports' section located under the
'Overview' menu.
•
Create the desired report in the platform for the required date range. The 'Cut Off' field should be set
to zero. It’s recommended that you select all the 'Delivery Environment' checkboxes and the
'Campaign' and 'Placement' checkboxes to ensure the view in IAS will be identical to the view in
Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions
and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Integrate API Connector
Integrate is a Demand Generation Marketing Orchestration Software that provides tools for management
and scalability of demand marketing efforts
•
Data Stream Type: Choose the Data Stream Type into which the data will be mapped as described in
the ‘Extended Properties’ section.
Prerequisites
Provide your Organization ID and API Key. Complete the following steps in order to retrieve these:
11.. Log into Integrate and navigate to ‘Organization Settings’.
22.. Click ‘Generate New Key’ in the top-right corner.
252

=== PAGE 257 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
33.. Input your Organization ID and API Key into the Authentication box.
Setup Requirements
The Integrate connector is a report-based connector. Select a report from the ‘Report’ dropdown,
populated with report name values that are of actual reports already created in Integrate. You can find
the Reports in Integrate by navigating to Analytics > Reports
Extended Properties
Data Stream Type - Select the Data Stream Type into which the data will be mapped. You can map into
the following Data Stream Types:
•
Ads
•
CRM
•
CRM Leads
•
Conversion Tag
•
Generic
Details
The names of the Unmapped File Fields match the names in the report file you download from Integrate.
It isn’t compulsory to map all the available fields - you can map only the fields you need.
How to QA
•
Create the desired report in the Integrate UI for the required date range and then process the relevant
Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the exact same date range. Not all reports are subject
of date range - some provide lifetime data. For example, the Leads Report provides lifetime leads data.
In such instances follow the same steps, but note that no matter which date range you process, the
same data is retrieved.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
•
To ensure that you have mapped correctly in terms of Entity relationships, filter the Integrate report for
a certain Dimension value and make sure that the list of associated Dimensions seen in the Integrate
report corresponds to that seen in Intelligence when the same filtering is applied. Under the above
filtering, make sure that the Measurement values are aligned as well.
Kenshoo API Connector
Kenshoo provides digital marketing solutions in Search, Social, and Display.
•
Channel: Search, Social, Display
253

=== PAGE 258 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Lag: 1 Day
Prerequisites
Provide a valid username and password, and a Kenshoo Account ID (also known as KS ID or Server
Number).
The Server Number can be found within the URL string used to log into Kenshoo. For example, if your
URL string is KS1234.kenshoo.com, your Server Number is 1234. There are occurrences where Kenshoo
provides their customers with "masked URLs" (for example, name.kenshoo.com). In these situations
contact your Kenshoo representative to obtain your Server Number.
Setup
The Kenshoo connector is a report based connector meaning that upon set up you’ll need to select a
report from the ‘Report’ drop-down populated with report name values. The report name values will be
of actual reports already created on Kenshoo.
Next, under the ‘Extended Properties’ section, choose the Data Stream Type with which to map your
data, as well as enter all the Field Names (or Column Headers) separated by a comma, as they appear in
Kenshoo for the selected report.
To get a list of the field names for the above report quickly and accurately, download the report from the
Kenshoo UI, copy the column row, replace the tabs with a comma and paste it back in the above box.
When the date range is selected for the Initial Data Fetch (or in routine processing thereafter) Marketing
Cloud Intelligence will process the report in question for the relevant date ranges using the API.
How to Map
When in the mapping stream, there are two entities that to pay special attention to: Date, and Currency
For the date value to be parsed by Marketing Cloud Intelligence correctly, use the following formula in
the mapping: PARSEDATE(csv[‘datefield'],'yyyy-MM-dd hh:mm:ss')
Another potential date format could be PARSEDATE(csv[‘kn.day'],'MM/dd/yyyy')
If you want the platform to consider the source currency to make any currency conversion calculations
correctly, make sure that this field is included in the list of fields and make sure you map it to the
Intelligence ‘Currency’ field. Alternatively, search for the unmapped ‘Currency’ field, then assign the
currency value from the Default Value dropdown to select the appropriate currency value and click ‘Set’
How to QA Your Data
For a certain report, process it in the Kenshoo UI for the required date range and then process the
relevant stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the exact same date range. Then create a Report/
254

=== PAGE 259 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Table Widget/Pivot table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions and
Measurements for the same date range. Start off by simply comparing the Measurement totals and make
sure those are aligned. Next, to make sure that you’ve mapped correctly in terms of Entity relationships,
filter the Kenshoo report for a certain Dimension value and make sure that the list of associated
Dimensions seen in the Kenshoo report corresponds to that seen in Intelligence when the same filtering
is applied. Also, under the above filtering, make sure that the metric values are aligned as well.
Known Issues
•
This connector might be a bit slow to process (as per Kenshoo’s API processing time) however this isn’t
indicative of any issues and actual stream failure rates should be relatively low.
•
Keep in mind that if the source report has more than one tab, the platform will always take the first tab
therefore use CSV reports or single sheet reports.
Kochava API Connector
Kochava is a mobile app marketing tracker.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
Provide a valid API Key. To obtain an API Key from within the platform, go to the “Account Settings”
menu and select “API Keys”. From here, you can either use an existing API key or generate a new one.
Extended Properties
In order to generate reports within Kochava, you must specify the Time-Zone which the account is
related to. This applies to using the API Connector as well, and setting the wrong values might lead to
inconsistencies in the data.
The API Connector provides aggregated data at the levels of Campaign, Network and Tracker. It doesn’t
currently provide Event Level data. Also, Kochava Installs are mapped to the Total Conversions
measurement in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
How to QA Your Data
11.. Select the relevant App from the Apps drop-down in the Kochava UI.
22.. Go to “App Tools” and select “Reports”.
33.. Create a new report, set the report type to “Campaign”
44.. Make sure you set the “Time Zone” parameter to be the same as the Time Zone you’ve set in the
Marketing Cloud Intelligence API connector (under “Extended Properties”).
55.. Include the relevant Dimensions and Measurements in the report.
255

=== PAGE 260 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Line Ads API Connector
LINE Ads is a performance-based ad platform for services related to the LINE chat app that enables you
to retrieve delivery data from the platform.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Ads
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
To connect to the LINE Ads connector, provide a valid username, password, and API secret key. Click here
to learn how to access your LINE Ads secret key.
If you encounter any technical issues with retrieving your API secret key, contact Line Ads support.
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant account you want to retrieve data for.
How to QA Your Data
11.. Create the desired report in the LINE Ads platform for the required date range.
22.. Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
33.. Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
44.. Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
LinkedIn Ads API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the LinkedIn Ads API connector to retrieve LinkedIn ad and conversion data. LinkedIn Ads is a
display channel, the data stream type is ads, and conversions, and the data lagging is one day.
Additional information on the LinkedIn Ads API Connector:
•
Many dimensions and measurements are unmapped.
•
You must refresh your LinkedIn Ads token once a year.
Create a LinkedIn Ads Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To view LinkedIn ads, create a LinkedIn Ads data stream.
Create a LinkedIn Ads Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To view LinkedIn ads, create a LinkedIn Ads data stream.
256

=== PAGE 261 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
To create a LinkedIn Ads API data stream, you need:
•
A valid Linkedin Ads username and password.
•
Access to LinkedIn Ads manager with permissions to at least one ad account.
11.. On the Connect and Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select the LinkedIn Ads connector.
44.. In the General section, enter your credentials, and select the profile that you want to pull data for.
55.. To add a data source authentication, click Add New and enter your LinkedIn Ads credentials.
66.. Set the time period for the initial data fetch. You can process data up to the past 180 days.
77.. In the Extended Properties section, you can set these properties:
aa.. To retrieve data from deleted or archived campaigns, select Get Archived Campaigns.
bb.. To apply a demographic view, select the breakdown from the dropdown. The retrieved data is on
the account level.
cc.. To pull data with no impressions, select Get Data With 0 Impressions.
88.. To change the mapping, click Mapping. Otherwise, you can always access mapping by selecting Map
to Model at the bottom of the Create New Stream page.
99.. To define advanced settings, at the bottom of the screen, select Advanced Settings.
1100.. Click Create.
1111.. Quality check your data:
aa.. Create a report in the LinkedIn Ads platform for the required date range.
bb.. Process the relevant data stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence, filtered to the same date range.
cc.. Create an identical report or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence with the same date range,
dimensions, and measurements.
dd.. Compare the measurement totals to make sure that they’re aligned.
LinkedIn Company Page API Connector
LinkedIn Company Page API Connector.
•
Channel: Social
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
Valid user and password, and permissions to manage a LinkedIn company page
257

=== PAGE 262 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Extended Properties
•
Get Update Level Data - Selecting pulls Update Level (posts) data that will be mapped to Social Post
Dimensions and Measurements in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
MailChimp API Connector
MailChimp API Connector.
•
Channel: Email Marketing
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
Valid username and password.
Details
•
The data retrieved in the first run includes campaigns sent between the specified date range, and 30
days before that date range's start date.
•
In following retrievals, data updates always include campaigns sent in the last 30 days.
•
Measurements' data aggregate starting from the Stream's creation date, meaning that the first data
date will be the stream's creation date.
•
All the Measurements retrieved in the connector are LIFETIME Measurements.
•
The connector only retrieves campaign level data.
•
The connector retrieves Email Recipient Key & Name and the Email Recipients List fields. However,
Email Recipient Key and Name are populated with default values concatenated with the Email
Recipients List value.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Connector for B2C Commerce
Use the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Connector for B2C Commerce to pull aggregated orders or
product-level data from your B2C Commerce site. B2C Commerce gathers data from your realm and
configures it into logical datasets called dashboards.
By connecting Marketing Cloud Intelligence to B2C Commerce Cloud, you can import your B2C
Commerce data into Intelligence and create custom views. You can analyze order and product data to
gain insights into business performance details and product performance. For example, find out how
many orders were placed during a promotion, or identify the top-three order channels used by registered
shoppers.
The Marketing Cloud Intelligence Connector for B2C Commerce data stream type is ecommerce, and
data lagging is one day.
Create an API Data Stream Using the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Connector for B2C Commerce
258

=== PAGE 263 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create an API data steam to connect your Commerce Cloud site data to Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
You can bring in either product-level or order-level data. Product-level data includes revenue
generated for each product (SKU) according to the date range. Order-level data is aggregated order
revenue over time without the details of specific products.
Create an API Data Stream Using the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Connector for B2C
Commerce
Create an API data steam to connect your Commerce Cloud site data to Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
You can bring in either product-level or order-level data. Product-level data includes revenue generated
for each product (SKU) according to the date range. Order-level data is aggregated order revenue over
time without the details of specific products.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
Before you can use the connector, set up B2C Commerce API access by generating an API client ID. See
Generate an API Client for Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select the Salesforce Commerce Cloud B2C connector.
44.. In the General section, enter your Commerce Cloud credentials.
55.. Select the site that you’re pulling data for. In the Initial data fetch section, select the dates you want to
pull data for. The default is 30 days. You can process data up to 180 days prior, queried in 90-day
intervals.
66.. If you want to bring in order-level data, under Extended Properties, deselect Bring only product
(SKU) level data. Select this option to bring in product-level data.
77.. To change the mapping, on the bottom of the Create New Stream page, select Map to Model. To
learn more about mapping, see Mapping Your Source Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
88.. To define advanced settings for the data stream, on the bottom of the Create New Stream page,
select Advanced Settings. To learn more about defining advanced settings, see Advanced Settings in
Data Streams.
99.. Click Create.
1100.. Quality check your data:
aa.. Create a report in Commerce Cloud for the date range, and then process the relevant data stream in
Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
bb.. For order-level data, compare the number of orders and revenue generated.
cc.. For product level data, compare the total number of units and revenue.
dd.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, create a report, table widget, or pivot table containing the same
dimensions and measurements for the same report and date range.
ee.. Compare the measurement totals and make sure that they align.
259

=== PAGE 264 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Here’s a video about the B2B Commerce connector:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/CLtXzU5SNoZQdiGKihwJK9
Moat API Connector
A digital advertisement search engine. Measures ad viewability on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Ads Verification
•
Data Lagging: 2 Days
Prerequisites
You must make sure that your MOAT API credentials match the type of report you want to retrieve.
Contact your Account Manager to see that you have the appropriate credentials.
Details
•
To authenticate, enter a Token and Brand ID.
•
If you don’t have a Token, contact your MOAT representative and request one.
•
If you don’t know your Brand Id, log into https://api.moat.com/pubdocs and search for your brand
here.
General Setup
After you’ve logged in with your credentials, you can now select the Brand ID for which you’re pulling
data.
Extended Properties
•
Get Placement Level Data - This checkbox is selected by default, and retrieves a Placement Level
report in addition to the data retrieved by the API by default. This added report is mapped to the Ads
Verification Data Stream Type.
•
Get Creative Level Data - When this checkbox is selected, Creative Level data is retrieved in addition to
the data retrieved by the API by default. This added report will be mapped to the Ads Verification Data
Stream Type.
•
Get Domain Level Data - When this checkbox is selected, Domain ID and Domain Name will be
retrieved in addition to the data retrieved by the API by default. This added report is mapped to the
Ads Verification Data Stream Type.
Known Issues
•
The following MOAT Entities are automatically mapped to the following Fields within Marketing Cloud
260

=== PAGE 265 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Intelligence:
- level1 - Campaign
- level2 - Site
- level3 - Placement (when Get Placement Level Data is checked)
- level4 - Creative (when Get Creative Level Data is checked)
- slicer1 - unmapped (when Get Domain Level Data is checked)
•
Due to limitations on the provider's side, the naming of MOAT fields isn’t consistent. Therefore, if you
believe there’s a discrepancy in your data, check the MOAT API documentation here (note that an API-
access set of credentials is required to access this link) and check the significance of the relevant MOAT
field to verify that it has been mapped correctly in Marketing Cloud Intelligence. If you find a field that
has been incorrectly mapped, simply unmap it and remap it to the correct Marketing Cloud
Intelligence field within the MOAT Data Stream.
How to QA Your Data
11.. Create the desired report in the Moat UI for the required date range.
22.. Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
33.. Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
44.. Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Marketing Cloud (Granular) API Connector
The Salesforce Marketing Cloud platform delivers relevant, personalized journeys across channels and
devices, enabling marketers to deliver the right message at the right time throughout all phases of the
relationship. The Marketing Cloud Granular (Standard) connector enables you to pull in all data from
Email Studio, Mobile Studio, and Journey Builder into a Granular Data Center.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Granular Data Center
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
This API connector supports: Enterprise 1.0 Enterprise 2.0 Core or Connect.
You must ensure that the credentials you’re using have access to the parent member, otherwise the
authentication will fail.
To connect to the Salesforce Marketing Cloud API, you need a valid username and password with API
access, Enterprise-level access, and must also be an Admin and Marketing Cloud Admin.
Complete the following steps to enable Marketing Cloud Intelligence Integration:
•
Log in to your Salesforce Marketing Cloud account and click your username on the top right of the
screen.
261

=== PAGE 266 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Under Settings, select Setup.
•
Expand Users.
•
Click Roles.
•
Select the role you want to update permissions for. Remember, that user must be an Admin and
Marketing Cloud Admin.
•
Scroll down and click the + icon to expand Intelligence.
•
Under Enable Intelligence Integration, select the Allow checkbox.
If you want to access Journey Builder, MobileConnect and/or MobilePush data make sure you have API
access to the relevant features as well. Contact your Marketing Cloud representative if you don’t have
access, or if you encounter any issues.
Details
Click here to view the Salesforce Marketing Cloud granular data set.
The SFMC Granular connector pulls the following types from MC:
Source Type Extraction Mode
Subscriber General Snapshot
Enterprise Profile Attribute Email Snapshot
Contact Point Email Email Snapshot
Email Engagement Send Email Incremental
Email Engagement Open Email Incremental
Email Engagement Click Email Incremental
Email Engagement Bounce Email Incremental
Email Engagement Complaint Email Incremental
Email Engagement Unsubscribe Email Incremental
Email Publication Email Snapshot
Email Template Email Snapshot
Campaign General Snapshot
Journey General Snapshot
Journey Activity General Snapshot
Contact Point Phone Mobile SMS Snapshot
SMS Template Mobile SMS Incremental
Contact Point App Mobile Push Snapshot
262

=== PAGE 267 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Source Type Extraction Mode
Push Engagement Event Mobile Push Incremental
Push Undelivered Engagement Mobile Push Incremental
Event
Push Template Mobile Push Snapshot
Extraction modes:
•
Snapshot - The entire data set is pulled daily.
•
Incremental - Only new records are pulled every day.
Currently, this connector doesn’t retrieve historical data.
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the following options:
•
Account - Select the relevant account that you want to retrieve data for.
•
Source - Select the sources you want to pull data for. You can select multiple sources to pull, and a
data stream is created for each of them.
•
SubProfile - It’s mandatory to select a SubProfile for Mobile and/or Push source types. Email source
types don’t require a SubProfile and if one is selected, it is ignored and all sub profiles for the account
will be pulled.
An error message appears when a SubProfile is required and hasn’t been selected.
QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Marketing Cloud platform for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Marketo API Connector
Marketing automation platform.
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
•
Client ID and Client Secret - You can find the Client ID and Secret under 'Admin' > 'Launch Point' >
263

=== PAGE 268 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
'New' > 'View Details' displays the credentials .
•
Identity - You can find the Identity under 'Admin' > 'Web Service' > copy the 'Identity for rest API'
Details
•
Reports from Marketo might not retrieve measurements data. In order to query data successfully in
the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform, a measurement must be queried along with the
dimensions. To make sure this is available to you, we advise that when mapping Marketo data you
map a measurement field with a st value, for example, '1'. When visualizing Marketo data, query this
measurement as well.
•
The 'Day' field should be mapped according to your desired view. You can use the Lead or Opportunity
modified date, map it as TODAY(), or any other relevant date.
Setup Process
After you enter your credentials into the Data Stream General Settings, a list of reports will be available
from the Report Type drop-down. Note that report names may slightly differ from how they appear in the
Marketo UI. One of the Report Types available is the ‘Email Marketing Campaign Summary’ report. If you
intend to create a Data Stream based on this report, start with that (before creating additional Data
Streams based on other Marketo Report Types) as it is more straightforward and easier to work with than
the other Report Types.
Furthermore, in selecting this Report Type, we recommend you select the ‘Email Marketing’ Data Stream
Type under the Extended Properties Section, as doing so will mean that all fields in this report will be
automatically mapped correctly in the Email Marketing Data Stream type.
If you intend to create a Data Stream based on one of the Leads reports, you have three options to
choose from: ‘Leads Report’, ‘Leads by List’ and ‘Leads by Program’. Out of the three, we strongly
recommend that you select the Leads Report as using this particular Report Type will assure much better
Data Stream performance, and furthermore - the ‘Leads by List’ and ‘Leads by Program’ Report Types are
planned to be deprecated in the near future.
In some reports, you’ll have the option to choose additional fields to retrieve in the report.
MediaMath API Connector
MediaMath is a Demand-Side Platform (DSP) that provides advertisers and marketers with tools to buy
ads online through a single interface.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Ads
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
264

=== PAGE 269 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Prerequisites
To connect to the MediaMath connector, provide a valid username and password.
Details
If you get an error in Funnel saying you are missing permission for a metric, check your permissions in
the UI following the instructions here and then reconnect your data source in Funnel.
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant profile you want to retrieve data for.
Extended Properties
•
Get Conversions Data- Select this checkbox to retrieve conversion data. This checkbox is selected by
default. The following fields are added and mapped to the conversion tag data stream type:
- Total Conversions
- Post Impression Conversions
- Post Click Conversions
•
Include Additional Cost Data- Select this checkbox to retrieve additional cost data. The following fields
are added and mapped to the ads data stream type:
- Adserving Cost
- Billed Spend
- Pmp No Opto Fee
•
Get Video Metrics- Select this checkbox to retrieve video data. The following fields are added and
mapped to the ads data stream type:
- Video Unmutes
- Video Skips
- Video Plays
- Video Pauses
- Video Mutes
- Video Fully Played
- Video Full Screens
- Video Completions 75%
- Video Completions 50%
- Video Completions 25%
- Video Companion Clicks
How to QA Your Data
11.. Create the desired report in the MediaMath platform for the required date range.
22.. Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
265

=== PAGE 270 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
33.. Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
44.. Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
MOZ API Connector
MOZ API is a Search Engine Optimization tool, which among other things, provides different competitive
views. By using our API, you’re able to select Domains, and retrieve a variety of Measurements related to
them.
•
Channel: SEO / Competitive
Prerequisites
Client ID and Key – Contact a Moz representative to obtain these credentials.
Details
The data that is retrieved through the API matches the view that is available under the ‘Links’ tab, which
can be found in the Campaigns Dashboard section in Moz Pro’s UI
Information on the provided Measurements can be found here.
Two Measurements that should be addressed differently are ‘MozRank’ and ‘MozTrust’, of type Rank.
These Measurements aren’t easily aggregated, and we recommend mapping them either as
Measurements with an Average aggregation type, or as a Dimension. There are 3 AVG type metrics
named “Rank #” within the Competitive Data Stream Type designated for that purpose.
General Setup
After you’ve logged in with your credentials, you can now select the Brand ID for which you’re pulling
data.
Extended Properties
•
Data Stream Type – Select your Data Stream Type. Use either Competitive or Web Analytics,
depending on your Moz use-case.
•
Domains – Select the Domains that you would like to track.
Known Issues
The data provided from Moz is aggregated by Lifetime, and thus are always be assigned to ‘Today’. There
are 2 levels of access – Free and Paid. Each one of them enables to different data-sets (Dimensions and
Measurements).
266

=== PAGE 271 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Naver API Connector
Naver is a Korean search engine, it’s also frequently referred to as 'the Google of South Korea'. This
integration allows you to retrieve your search and delivery data from the platform.
•
Channel: Search
•
Data Stream Type: Ad, Search Keywords, Conversion Tag, Search Keywords with Conversion Tags
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
To connect to Naver API, provide a valid Customer ID, Access License, and Private Key. Complete the
following steps to obtain these prerequisites:
11.. Sign up to NAVER SEARCH ADVERTISER's Center (http://searchad.naver.com)
22.. Go to http://manage.searchad.naver.com
33.. Go to Tools > API Manager
44.. Create API license
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant account you want to retrieve data for.
Extended Properties
•
Get Keywords - Select this checkbox to retrieve Keywords data in addition to the Delivery data
retrieved by the API by default.
•
Get Conversions - Select this checkbox to retrieve Conversion data in addition to the Delivery data
retrieved by the API by default.
QA Your Data
11.. Create the desired report in the Naver platform for the required date range.
22.. Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
33.. Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
44.. Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
NetBase API Connector
Netbase is a Social Listening Platform. They develop Natural Language Processing technology that is used
to analyze social media and other web content.
•
Channel: Social
267

=== PAGE 272 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Data Stream Type: Social Listening
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
Provide a valid Netbase username and password to an Account that has API access. To enable API
access, contact your Netbase representative.
General Setup
•
Enter your Netbase credentials, and select the Account you wish to pull data for from the drop-down.
•
The Topics for the selected Account appears in a drop-down. Choose at least one topic you wish to
pull data for. Not that each Data Stream retrieval is limited to three Topics, to retrieve data for more
than three Topics, it’s recommended that you create additional Data Streams.
Details
•
The Netbase Dimension ‘Topic’ maps to the Entity called ‘Monitor’, which is the Main Entity in the
Social Listening Data Stream Type.
•
The Netbase Dimension ‘Documents’ maps to the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Entity called ‘Social
Mention’.
•
Marketing Cloud Intelligence pulls Netbase’s data at the ‘Mention’ level, which is the most granular
level possible, as it’s the actual social media post. This allows for all the data pulled to be aggregated at
that level in the background, while providing you with the flexibility to create the aggregations you
wish to see within Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
Known Issues
•
Due to Twitter’s legal limitations, which block the transfer of their post content to third party
applications, you won’t be able to retrieve the content of Twitter Mentions into Marketing Cloud
Intelligence - but their associated Measurements are retrieved normally.
•
Due to policy agreements between Twitter and NetBase, Tweet IDs won’t be included in the "docID"
field returned from the API by default. To retrieve these IDs, contact your NetBase representative and
request the IDs to be returned for "retrieveDocuments" and "retrieveSentences" endpoints.
•
Netbase’s API has a low rate limit, meaning that Marketing Cloud Intelligence can only complete one
data retrieval per minute, potentially causing delays or processing errors, such as: “Rate Limit” or “Too
Many Requests”.
QA Your Data
11.. Log in to your Netbase account and click the ‘Analyze’ tab
22.. Click the ‘All In One’ view
33.. Select the Topic and Date Range you would like to analyze, in the top-left toolbar
268

=== PAGE 273 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
44.. After it is applied, select ‘Stream’ in the top-right toolbar
55.. Download the ‘Stream’ data to Excel by clicking the download button on the top left of the screen
66.. Within Marketing Cloud Intelligence, create a Pivot Table for the same Date Range and Topic as the
Report you generated in Netbase
77.. Compare the Measurement Totals per row
Oauth2 Authentication
Oauth2 is an authentication method commonly used as a way for users to authorize websites or
applications to access their information on other vendors using authentication tokens, without giving
them the credentials to the vendor. Oauth2 is used when the connection to a vendor is done through a
mediator app.
When generating an authentication token, the mediator app contacts the relevant vendor and trigger it
to send the user an authentication request. When the user enters their credentials, a token will be
created and saved for future use. This token is the authentication method for connecting to the vendor
from now on. You can see a use of oauth2 in Marketing Cloud Intelligence in some of our API
connectors. For example, when creating a Google Analytics data stream the authentication screen is a
Google authentication screen triggered by Marketing Cloud Intelligence. When the user enters their
credentials, an authentication token is saved in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for future use.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence enables the use of Oauth2 authentication in HTTP retrieval settings, for
example when retrieving data from vendors that require this kind of authentication like Hubspot. To
apply an Oauth2 authentication choose Oauth2 as the Authentication Type in the retrieval settings of the
Data Stream. Then enter the relevant details required by the vendor to generate an authentication token.
•
Callback URL - Enter this URL in the mediator app you use, the callback URL is used by the mediator
app to direct the response back to Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
•
Token Name - This is an internal name that is used only in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
•
Auth URL - This is the URL of the vendor's authentication window, as provided by the vendor.
•
Access Token URL - This is the URL of the token that becomes available after the authentication
process is complete. It should be provided by the vendor.
•
Client ID - A part of the mediator's app credentials when accessing the vendor, as provided by the
mediator app you’re using.
•
Client Secret - A part of the mediator's app credentials when accessing the vendor, as provided by the
mediator app you’re using.
The following fields are optional. Some vendors might require you include them in the request. The
vendor's requirements should be included in their documentation.
•
App ID - A part of the mediator's app credentials, as provided by the mediator app, and is optional and
not required for all Vendors.
•
Request Token URL - Also referred to as 'Refresh Token URL', Some vendors have different URLs for
generating an authentication token and refreshing an authentication token. If this is the case, enter
the URL used for refreshing the authentication token.
•
Scope - Some vendors allow you to request only specific data. If this is the case, enter the scope details
269

=== PAGE 274 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
as required by the vendor.
•
Grant Type - Currently, Marketing Cloud Intelligence supports only the 'Authentication Code' type.
•
After you’re done entering the authentication form click Generate Token. Enter your credentials in the
vendor's authentication pop-up window. When using Oauth2 you must generate a token to pull data.
•
Access token type - After a token is generated, the Access Token Type determines how it’s used. Make
sure that this setting matches the vendor's settings.
Order Management System API Connector
Order Management System (OMS) is a central hub for handling all aspects of the order life cycle,
including order capture, fulfillment, shipping, payment processing, and services.
The data stream type is ecommerce, and data lagging is 1 day.
Here is some additional information about the Order Management System API Connector:
•
If your Commerce Cloud setup is connected to OMS, your Commerce Cloud data appears in
Marketing Cloud Intelligence when connecting to the API.
•
Intelligence pulls both order and item-level data using the order key. The order key is in the URL of the
order in OMS and appears at the end. For example, …/OrderSummary/10s4L000000kFIYSAU/view
•
Intelligence maps the OMS order number to a custom field named Order Number.
Prerequisites for Creating an API Data Stream Using the Order Management System Connector
To create an API data stream for OMS, you enable using multiple currencies. Then, when products
have different currencies, Marketing Cloud Intelligence converts the currency to the currency selected
in Intelligence.
Create an Order Management System Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To connect your Order Management System (OMS) data to Marketing Cloud Intelligence to pull
orders, fulfillment, shipping, payment processing, and more, you create an API data stream.
Change or Add Fields from the Order Management System to the Connector
If you must add or change fields, we recommend working with a custom connector for SOQL. You can
use these queries and change them accordingly.
See Also
Data Model for Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Prerequisites for Creating an API Data Stream Using the Order Management System Connector
To create an API data stream for OMS, you enable using multiple currencies. Then, when products have
different currencies, Marketing Cloud Intelligence converts the currency to the currency selected in
Intelligence.
The user must have Admin permissions in Order Management System (OMS) to authenticate with
Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
In Order Management Setup, expand Company Settings, and click Company Information
270

=== PAGE 275 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Click Edit and select Activate Multiple Currencies.
See Also
Set the Currency and Date Format
Create an Order Management System Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To connect your Order Management System (OMS) data to Marketing Cloud Intelligence to pull orders,
fulfillment, shipping, payment processing, and more, you create an API data stream.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
11.. On the Connect and Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select the Order Management System connector.
44.. In the General section, enter your OMS credentials. The account you’re pulling data for is selected.
55.. Select the advertiser that you’re pulling data for.
66.. To change the mapping, click Mapping. You can always access mapping by selecting Map to Model at
the bottom of the Create New Stream page.
77.. To define advanced settings for the data stream, at the bottom of the Create New Stream page, select
Advanced Settings.
88.. Click Create.
Quality check your data.
11.. To create a match between the order key in Marketing Cloud Intelligence to the order in OMS, use the
URL in OMS. The order key appears at the end of the URL.
22.. Create a report in the OMS platform for the date range and then process the relevant data stream in
Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
33.. Create a report, table widget, or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the same
dimensions and measurements for the same report and date range.
44.. Compare the measurement totals and make sure that they align.
See Also
Mapping Your Source Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Define Additional Settings to a Data Stream
271

=== PAGE 276 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Change or Add Fields from the Order Management System to the Connector
If you must add or change fields, we recommend working with a custom connector for SOQL. You can
use these queries and change them accordingly.
Order Summary
SELECT
TotalDeliveryAdjDistAmount,TotalAdjustedDeliveryAmount,TotalAdjustedDeliveryTa
xAmount,
OrderedDate,OriginalOrderId,GrandTotalAmount,Id,OrderNumber,Status,TotalAdjDis
tTaxAmount,
TotalAdjustedProductAmount,TotalAdjDistAmount,TotalTaxAmount,
SalesChannel.SalesChannelName FROM OrderSummary
Order Item Summary
SELECT
CurrencyIsoCode,product2.StockKeepingUnit,product2.ProductCode,product2.Famil
y,
product2.Description,product2.name,QuantityOrdered,QuantityFulfilled,QuantityR
eturned,
UnitPrice,TotalTaxAmount,orderSummary.Id,OriginalOrderItemId
FROM OrderItemSummary Where Type = 'Order Product' ORDER BY OrderSummaryId DES
C
Outbrain API Connector
Outbrain API connector
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
Provide a valid Outbrain username and password which has API access enabled. To enable API access
contact your Outbrain representative.
Pinterest API Connector
Pinterest is an online pinboard for collecting visual pieces of multimedia and sharing the content with
other users within the platform.
272

=== PAGE 277 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Channel: Social
•
Data Stream Type: Social Objects
Prerequisites
Provide a valid Pinterest username and password. After it is authenticated, under Profile select the Profile
you want to retrieve.
Details
•
Due to Pinterest API limitations, the connector retrieves posts from the last 90 days, therefore all posts
90 days prior aren’t retrieved.
•
Entries in the Data Stream Log appear under the processing date of the extraction date (‘Today’).
•
When processing the data stream, there’s no way to define a start and end date, since data for posts is
retrieved until today and assigned a date value identical to the day of processing.
•
Measurement data retrieved for all posts is accurate according to the date when processing takes
place.
•
The connector shows LIFETIME type Measurements. LIFETIME Measurements display the
accumulated value of the Measurement as of the current date.
•
Data Streams with LIFETIME Aggregation don’t allow for any failed retrievals to be reprocessed post-
failure, in order to prevent potential data inaccuracies. For example, if a data stream retrieval failed on
January 1, 2019 at 8 AM. Even a minute or two later - the data will be updated and refreshed, and
what is available for retrieval on the platform will no longer reflect what was attempted to be retrieved
a minute or two prior - not to mention how much the data may change by January 2, 2019.
Reprocessing that failed retrieval on January 2nd would mean that data that didn’t exist in the
platform on January 1 would be attributed to January 1 - a misrepresentation, which could lead to
serious inaccuracies.
•
Similarly, after data is deleted from a Pinterest data stream, the deleted data won’t be accessible for
retrieval through reprocessing, because of the nature of LIFETIME Measurements.
•
In order to reprocess data retrieved in the past without actually deleting any data - for example, to
accommodate changes in mapping - the Re-Run Files option can be used, which is located under the
‘Log’ button in the Data Streams Management menu.
QA Your Data
11.. Create the desired report in the Pinterest UI for the required date range.
22.. Then, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
33.. Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
44.. Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Pinterest Ads API Connector
Pinterest Ads is Pinterest’s Advertising Channel, through which Promoted Pins are created, edited, and
273

=== PAGE 278 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
managed.
•
Channel: Display, Search
•
Data Stream Type: Ads, Conversion Tags, Conversions with Keywords, Search Keyword
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
Provide a valid username and password to connect to Pinterest Ads.
Details
All delivery Measurements that are automatically mapped are a combination of Paid and Earned data.
Paid and Earned Measurements, such as Paid Impressions or Earned Impressions are retrieved as
separate Measurements but require manual mapping.
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant Advertiser you want to retrieve data for.
Extended Properties
•
Get Keywords- Select this checkbox to retrieve keyword data in addition to the Delivery data retrieved
by the API by default. The following fields are added to the Search Keywords Data Stream Type:
- Search Keyword Match Type
- Search Keyword
•
Get Conversions - Select this checkbox to retrieve Conversion and Revenue data in addition to the
Delivery data retrieved by the API by default. The following fields are added to the Conversion Tag
Data Stream Type:
- Total Conversions
- Revenue
- Post Impression Revenue
- Post Impression Conversions
- Post Click Revenue
- Post Click Conversions
- Conversion Tag Name
- Conversion Tag Category
•
To change the Attribution Window select a look-back combination from the dropdown. The attribution
look-back window represents the number of days between an ad event and a conversion event. The
default attribution window is: 30 days for Click, 30 days for Engagement and 1 day for View.
•
Note When selecting both Get Conversions and Get Keywords, Conversion Tag With Keywords
data is retrieved in addition to the data pulled by default, and is mapped to the Conversion Tag
With Keywords Data Stream Type.
274

=== PAGE 279 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Known Issues
Currently the Pinterest Ads API isn’t bringing in Shopping data.
QA Your Data
This section outlines the steps to take to make sure your Data is working in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
11.. Create the desired report in the Pinterest Ads platform for the required date range.
22.. Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
33.. Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
44.. Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Compare the Conversions Data as follows:
11.. Within Pinterest Ads, click Ads and select Reporting.
22.. Click the Pencil icon and select the relevant fields to configure your report to match the Data Stream in
Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
33.. Compare the totals within the Pinterest Ads Manager, or export your report.
44.. Compare the Pinterest Ads conversions to Marketing Cloud Intelligence conversions.
55.. Contrary to how it’s displayed in the user interface, the Conversion Metrics in Marketing Cloud
Intelligence are transposed. For example, in the user interface- there’s a Measurement for each
conversion type, Search, Signup, Watch-Video, etc. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, to align with the
Data Model and other platforms, the type of the conversion is returned as a value of a Conversion Tag
Category Dimension, while the Measurement values of all conversions are available in the Total
Conversions Measurement
66.. The Total Conversions Measurement reflects the default attribution window as defined in the Pinterest
Ads account. If you aren’t comparing Totals, ensure that you compare the Conversion Measurements
in Pinterest with the corresponding attribution window set in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
Python Data Stream Retrievals
Python scripts are an effective, fast growing and easy to use technology, and they are now supported in
Marketing Cloud Intelligence as a Retrieval Method for TotalConnect Data Streams. Although in some
cases the same results can be achieved using HTTP requests, Python retrievals are more robust while still
being flexible, powerful, and relatively easy to set up.
Setup
Being a data source connection method, the same procedure is followed as when connecting any new
data source, which means you’ll first have to make sure you’re in the Connect & Mix tab. Under the Data
Stream List section, click Add New.
Scroll down to the Technical Vendors section and start the Data Stream setup process from there.
275

=== PAGE 280 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Alternatively, you can also start the setup process by choosing to create a TotalConnect Data Stream and
then setting Python as the Retrieval Method.
What Can It Be Used For?
Python can be useful for retrieving data from different sources in different formats. The fact that Python
is a script makes it flexible in dealing with varying formats, requirements, and scenarios. Below are some
examples of use cases that are best addressed by using a Python-based connector:
•
Retrieving data via an API connection where multiple HTTP calls are required in order to handle any of
the following cases:
- Obtaining an OAuth 2.0 token.
- Retrieving Entities.
- Looping Through Calls.
- Paginating through the response.
•
Parsing the data during the retrieval process itself (prior to having it available in the mapping screen)
so that it’s easier to work with within Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
Technical Implementation
Execution Requirements
•
Version: Python 3.9
•
Processing Limit: Maximum 10 minutes.
•
Memory Limit: Maximum 1.5 GB
•
Output: The script must generate a dataset compatible with a Data Stream.
Blocked Libraries
These libraries can’t be used. Attempting to import these results in script failure:
•
os
•
subprocess
•
shutil
•
pty
•
sys
•
importlib
•
ctypes
•
socket
•
pickle
•
marshal
•
code
•
runpy
•
multiprocessing
•
signal
276

=== PAGE 281 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
commands
•
pdb
•
webbrowser
•
antigravity
•
turtle
•
tempfile
•
pathlib
•
glob
•
fcntl
•
resource
•
posix
•
_ thread
•
threading
Blocked Functions & Patterns
These built-in functions and access patterns are restricted:
Functions: exec() , eval() , and compile()
Patterns: importlib.import_module() __import__() (direct use) and __builtins__
We recommend that you develop your script and test it externally (in your own Python environment) so
that it’s easier for you to validate and debug. You can use the publicly available Marketing Cloud
Intelligence Package to build your script and test it. Use the “pip install” command to install the
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Package on your local environment. Note that using ‘save_csv’ and ‘save’ in
your local environment will print the results instead of saving them to Marketing Cloud Intelligence. Do
the following:
•
Start by Importing the relevant Packages and include the Marketing Cloud Intelligence package.
•
Build the logic as per your requirements using the Supported Packages.
•
Use the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Package to programmatically write rows to a csv file, which will
be uploaded to the Data Stream (see below a table with a summary of the functions supported in our
Package).
Supported Package Functions
Function Input Description
add_row() list(array) of the values in a Use this function to write a
specific row single row of data to a csv file.
add_rows() list of several rows' values Use this function to write
multiple rows to a csv file.
save() Use this to end the script and
save the final csv file to
277

=== PAGE 282 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Function Input Description
Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
File is uploaded to your data
stream.
save_csv() a csv formatted string of the full Use instead of the above
input file functions in case you have a csv-
formatted string that consists of
all of the data you want to write
to Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
log() Text For debugging purposes you can
use this function to print text to
the Data Stream log.
There are two different ways to write Python scripts:
•
Internal - The Python module is read via Marketing Cloud Intelligence data streams.
•
External - The script is run via a local IDE.
The examples below show how to write internal scripts. If you are writing external scripts, you must write
the scripts as follows:
•
Call the datorama module via “from datorama.datorama import *” instead of “import datorama”
•
Remove “dataorama.” from the beginning of each function.
Here you can see a live example of how this looks:
from datorama.datorama import *
#Generating a list of values for our headers' row
row_values_list = ['date','campaign','impression','clicks']
# Writing a new row to the csv input file from values list
add_row(row_values_list)
Example 1 - using add_row() and save():
import datorama
#Generating a list of values for our headers' row
row_values_list = ['date','campaign','impression','clicks']
# Writing a new row to the csv input file from values list
datorama.add_row(row_values_list)
#Generating two more lists containing row values
278

=== PAGE 283 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
#Note that the values of a specific column are in the same position in their r
ow's list as the position of their header in the headers' row
row2 = ['01-12-2017','Campaign 1',15,6] row3 = ['02-12-2017','Campaign 2',20,1
0]
# Creating a list of the two rows we want to write at once
multiple_rows = [row2,row3]
# Writing several rows at once to the csv by sending a list of multiple value
s' lists
datorama.add_rows(multiple_rows)
# Saving the csv file to upload it to our data stream
datorama.save()
Example 2 - using save_csv():
import datorama
#Generate the exact same file by providing a csv formatted string of the fil
e's content
csv_string = '''"date","campaign","impression","clicks"\n\ "01-12-2017","Campa
ign 1", 15, 6\n\ "02-12-2017","Campaign 2", 20, 10'''
#Saving the csv file, based on the input string
datorama.save_csv(csv_string)
Both scripts will produce the following csv file:
Date Campaign Impressions Clicks
01-12-2017 Campaign 1 15 6
02-12-2017 Campaign 2 20 10
Supported Python Packages
The Python Retrieval Method supports a limited list of Python Packages, which are commonly used for
handling data retrieval. Importing and using a non-supported Package will result in in script failure. If
your needs cannot be met by using one of the existing Supported Packages, and can only be met by
using a Package that is not currently supported, please log a Feature Request with your CSM so that the
requested package can be considered to be added to the Supported Packages list in the future. The
Supported Packages are those supported by ‘AWS Lambda’ as well as the ones shown below:
•
Requests
•
re
•
ftplib
•
Pandas
279

=== PAGE 284 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
oauthlib
•
cloudstorage
•
boto3
•
requests_oauthlib
•
webapp2
•
boto
•
Numpy
•
logging
•
json
•
tweepy
•
datetime
•
oauth2client
•
googleapiclient
•
apiclient
•
httplib2
•
Googleads
•
pyasn1
•
Facebookads
•
tabula-py (the syntax to import this package is: 'import tabula')
•
xlrd
•
mlxtend
•
Selenium
•
simple_salesforce
•
scrapy
•
time
•
base64
•
crypt
Once you’ve validated your script, click ‘Next’ to retrieve a file, and to proceed to the Mapping screen
where you map the file the same way you would map any other TotalConnect Data Stream.
Examples
This script retrieves data about Demographic Statistics, By Zip Code, published by data.cityofnewyork.us
import datorama import urllib2
import jsonurl = "https://data.cityofnewyork.us/api/views/kku6-nxdu/row
s.json?accessType=DOWNLOAD"
req = urllib2.Request(url)
response = urllib2.urlopen(req)
response_str = response.read().decode('utf-8')
response_json = json.loads(response_str)
columns_js = response_json["meta"]["view"]["columns"]
rows_list = response_json["data"]
280

=== PAGE 285 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
headers = []
for column in columns_js: headers.append(column["name"])
datorama.add_row(headers)
datorama.add_rows(rows_list)
datorama.save()
This script retrieves publicly available data from Twitter for different Screen Names, with Metrics such as
Follows, Comments, etc. Using it requires having a valid App registered with Twitter:
import datoramaimport tweepyimport datetimeimport jsonimport
pandas as pdscreen_names = ["NASCAR", "F1", "PGATOUR", "MotoGP", "IndyCa
r", "ufc", "WWE"]
report_fields = ["screen_name", "statuses_count","followers_count","frien
ds_count","listed_count","favourites_count" ]
#Twitter API
credentialsconsumer_key = ""consumer_secret = ""access_key = ""access_sec
ret = ""
#Calculating the date of the run
now = datetime.datetime.now()
date = now.strftime("%d-%m-%Y")
#authorize twitter, initialize
tweepyauth = tweepy.OAuthHandler(consumer_key, consumer_secret)
auth.set_access_token(access_key, access_secret)
api = tweepy.API(auth)
full_report = pd.DataFrame()
#Pulling the report from Twitter per screen namefor screen_name in scree
n_names:
get_user = api.get_user(screen_name = screen_name)
#Using pandas DataFrame to manipulate the report
df = pd.DataFrame(get_user._json)
#Filtering the report only on requested fields
requested_df = df[report_fields]
#Adding the screen name to the data set
requested_df["account"] = screen_name
#Appending the current screen name's data set to the full report of all s
creen names
full_report =full_report.append(requested_df, ignore_index=True)
#Adding the run date in the "date" column of the data
setfull_report["date"] = date
#Creating a csv string of the data
setcsv_string = full_report.to_csv()
#Saving the csv
datorama.save_csv(csv_string)
281

=== PAGE 286 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Quora Ads API Connector
Quora is an online community that allows users to share knowledge (by asking and answering
questions). Quora is one of the highest-quality user-generated content platforms.
Click here for more information about Quora.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Ads, Conversion Tag
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
Provide a valid Quora Ads username and password.
General Setup
In the Credentials area, if you have already set up your Quora user, you can select the name from the
dropdown list. If not, click Add new to define a new user.
Extra Information
The attribution window of the Conversion data is set to the default, 28 days click and 1-day view.
Known Issues
•
The connector supports all Conversion Types available in Quora but unfortunately, due to limitations
on Quora’s end, this doesn’t include any new Conversion Types that might be added by Quora in the
future. If you’re missing a Conversion Type in your data, contact Support.
•
There may be discrepancies with the total of data that is retrieved at the Ad level in Marketing Cloud
Intelligence compared to the totals in Quora. This is because Marketing Cloud Intelligence displays the
total of data based on a run-time calculation that doesn’t include deleted Ads, where Quora includes
deleted Ads in their calculation (although they aren’t displayed).
QA Your Data
This section outlines the steps to take to make sure your Data is working in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
11.. Create the desired report in the UI for the required date range.
22.. Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
33.. Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
44.. Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
282

=== PAGE 287 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Compare the Conversions Data as follows:
11.. Go to the Ads Manager in Quora
22.. Configure filters.
33.. Click Download Ads.
44.. Compare Quora conversions to Marketing Cloud Intelligence conversions.
55.. Contrary to how it’s displayed in the UI, the Conversion Metrics in Marketing Cloud Intelligence are
transposed. For example, in the UI - there’s a Measurement for each conversion type, Generic, App
Installs, Purchase etc. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, to align with the Data Model and other
platforms, the type of the conversion is returned as a value of a Conversion Tag Category Dimension,
while the metric values of all conversions are available in the Total Conversions metric
Radarly API Connector
Radarly by Linkfluence, is a social listening platform that uses Artificial Intelligence (AI) to turn social data
into valuable insights. With Radarly, users can leverage social data and gather valuable consumer insights
online.
•
Channel: Social Listening
•
Data Stream Type: Social Listening
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
To connect to the Radarly API, provide a valid Radarly username and password with API access.
General Setup
After selecting a Project, you can choose to retrieve a single or several Queries, or leave the field empty
to retrieve all. Retrieving too many Queries could result in a large amount of data, causing a timeout. If
this happens, reduce the number of Queries per data stream.
Known Issues
•
Some platforms don’t allow Radarly to return all the content through their APIs. For example, Twitter
restricts their content to be distributed through APIs only to Tweet IDs, Direct Message IDs, and/or
User IDs.
•
Token limitation - A Radarly user can only use a single data source authentication. This means that in
order to use it in different Workspaces, the data source authentication must be shared to the entire
Account.
QA Your Data
This section outlines the steps to take to make sure your data is working in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
283

=== PAGE 288 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
11.. Select your Project and then your Dashboard.
22.. Select Posts.
33.. Configure your filters to match the filters you have in Intelligence
44.. Select your date range and export the file.
55.. Compare the file to your data in Intelligence.
Reddit Ads API Connector
Reddit is a social news aggregation, web content rating, and discussion website. Reddit Ads is a platform
users can purchase and manage advertising space.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Ads, Conversion Tag
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
To connect to Reddit Ads, provide a valid Reddit username and password. Currently, Reddit Ads API is in
Beta, to get your account allow-listed for the API, contact your Reddit representative.
General Setup
Enter your credentials, then select the relevant Account you want to retrieve data for.
Known Issues
•
Get Conversions Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve Conversion and Revenue data besides the
Delivery data retrieved by the API by default. These fields are added and mapped to the Conversion
Tag Data Stream Type:
- Total Conversions
- Post Impression Conversions (7 Days)
- Post Impression Conversions (28 Days)
- Post Impression Conversions
- Post Click Conversions (7 Days)
- Post Click Conversions (28 Days)
- Post Click Conversions
- Conversion Tag Name
- Conversion Tag Category
QA Your Data
This section outlines the steps to take to make sure your data is working in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
11.. Create the desired report in the Reddit Ads platform for the required date range.
284

=== PAGE 289 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
22.. Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
33.. Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions
and Measurements for the same report and date range.
44.. Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Compare the Conversions Data as follows:
11.. Go to your Ads Manager.
22.. Under Metrics, select the metrics you want to include in the report and click Apply.
33.. You can either compare the totals in the Reddit Ads Manager or export it to CSV. Compare the Reddit
Ads conversions to Marketing Cloud Intelligence conversions.
44.. Contrary to how it’s displayed in the Reddit platform, the Conversion Metrics in Marketing Cloud
Intelligence are transposed. For example, in the UI - there’s a Measurement for each conversion type,
Add to Wishlist, Lead, Page Visit, Purchase, and so on.
55.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, to align with the Data Model and other platforms, the type of the
conversion is returned as a value of a Conversion Tag Category Dimension, while the Measurement
values of all conversions are available in the Total Conversions Measurement.
66.. The Total Conversions Measurement reflects the attribution window as defined in the Reddit account.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence pulls all available Measurements for View and Click - 1 day, 7 days, and
28 days, which can be mapped manually. If you aren’t comparing Totals, ensure that you compare the
Conversion Measurements in Reddit with the corresponding Measurements in Marketing Cloud
Intelligence.
Salesforce Marketing Cloud Data Extensions
Salesforce Marketing Cloud is a platform for delivering relevant, personalized journeys across channels
and devices - enabling marketers to deliver the right message at the right time throughout all phases of
the relationship.
The SFMC Data Extensions connector enables you to pull in data extensions, which are custom tables
with fields of data about your contacts. They can be standalone or can be related to other data
extensions.
Note
•
Don’t edit the data extension after creating a data stream. Removing or renaming any columns
after creation, causes issues with automation. If for some reason you must edit the data
extensions, contact Marketing Cloud Support.
•
Make sure your data extension doesn’t contain these columns: date_id, location_id,
dat_account_currency, dat_exchange_rate, pacing_period, pacing_end_date, row_count, or
brand_id.
•
Make sure the data extension doesn’t use the same column name more than one time.
•
Only data extensions with less than 50M records are supported.
•
Sendlog DEs aren’t supported.
•
Your user must have Enterprise-level access.
285

=== PAGE 290 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Your user must also be an Admin and Marketing Cloud Admin.
•
This API connector supports the following:
- Enterprise 1.0
- Enterprise 2.0
- Core or Connect
•
You must make sure your user has access to the parent member, otherwise the authentication
fails.
•
If for some reason the connection to the data extension failed, try deleting the automation of the
data extension in Automation Studio. If this doesn’t help, contact Marketing Cloud support.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Generic
•
Data Lagging: 1 day
Details
•
The data stream runs on an hourly basis, but usually pulls data once a day. The data is pulled after it
becomes available from Marketing Cloud.
•
Usually Marketing Cloud data isn’t available upon the creation of the data stream, and is only available
24–48 hours later. Therefore, if no data is pulled in during the first process, it’s recommended you
check the data stream a day or two later. After initial provisioning the data stream is processed as
expected, and data becomes available daily.
Prerequisites
To connect to the Salesforce Marketing Cloud API, you need a valid username and password with API
access.
•
Your user must have Enterprise-level access.
•
It’s advised you check your Business Unit Marketing Cloud time zone. If it differs from Central Standard
Timezone (Marketing Cloud Intelligence’s default time zone), you could see discrepancies in your data.
Enabling
11.. Log in to your Salesforce Marketing Cloud account and click your username on the top right of the
screen.
22.. Under Settings, select Setup.
33.. Expand Users.
44.. Click Roles.
55.. Select the role you want to update permissions for. Your user must be an Admin and Marketing Cloud
Admin.
66.. Scroll down and click the plus icon and expand Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
286

=== PAGE 291 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
77.. Under Enable Marketing Cloud Intelligence Integration, select the Allow checkbox.
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the following options:
•
Account - Select the relevant account that you want to retrieve data for.
•
Data Extension - Select the data extension you want to retrieve data for.
Advanced Settings
This section allows you to define advanced settings for your API connector. These settings are the same
for all API connectors.
Extended Properties
In this section:
•
Data Stream Type - Select the relevant data type for the data being pulled.
How to QA Your Data
11.. Create the desired report in the Salesforce Marketing Cloud platform for the required date range.
22.. Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
33.. Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Salesforce Marketing Cloud Legacy API Connector
This connector provides data about email marketing campaigns.
•
Channel: Email
•
Data Stream Type: Email Marketing
Prerequisites
Valid username and password with API permissions
Known Issues
Not all metrics available in the UI are pulled by the connector.
287

=== PAGE 292 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Authentication
11.. Go to Marketing Cloud > Administration.
22.. Under Account, select Installed Packages and click New.
33.. In the New Package Details screen, enter a Name and Description.
44.. Make sure the Create with enhanced functionality checkbox is NOT selected.
55.. Click Save.
66.. Receive the Client Id and Client Secret.
77.. More details can be found here.
For Marketing Cloud Intelligence you need:
•
Client ID
•
Client Secret
•
Instance ID
If you’re not sure what the Instance ID is, you can find it within the URL string when logging into
Marketing Cloud: it is the S(#) value in the URL.
Setup
When setting up the Data Stream there are 3 dropdowns that you need to consider under the ‘General’
tab. The ‘Credentials’ is where you would select the username on the Marketing Cloud platform. Each
Workspace can have more than one username for which data is pulled. The dropdown is therefore
populated with all the usernames that have been authenticated. Each username can be associated with
more than one Account on Marketing Cloud and the dropdown will display all the Accounts associated
with the respective username. The Business Unit selection is optional, it populates with all the Business
Units associated with this Account.
This connector pulls LIFETIME measurements and every processing action pulls data for all existing
Campaigns. This means that there’s no ‘Initial Data Fetch’ configuration in the Data Stream settings, as in
other API connectors. Every time the Data Stream is processed, whether at creation or otherwise, it pulls
all Campaigns data regardless of how far back such data exists historically. This means that configuring
dates for Initial Data Fetch or for routine processing is irrelevant.
The Platform assigns the Processing Date as the Data Date for the retrieved data, since the LIFETIME
values of the Measurements pulled (in every such instance) are true to that particular date.
To keep data for Failed Days at Date level, Failed Days must be reprocessed on the day that they failed.
Reprocessing data on any other day would assign the new Processing Date to the reprocessed data.
Similarly, if you delete data for dates prior to the current day, reprocessing assigns the Reprocessing Date
to that date, overriding whatever dates it had before.
To avoid confusion, here’s a list of the Source Measurements and the Intelligence Measurements to
which they’re mapped:
288

=== PAGE 293 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
SOURCE MAPPING
Sends Emails Sent
Implicit Deliveries Emails Delivered
Soft Bounces Email Soft Bounces
Hard Bounces Email Hard Bounces
Unique Opens Email Opened
Unique Clicks Email Clicked
Unique Unsubscribes Email Unsubscribes
Forwarded Emails Email Marketing Custom Metric 01
Number Errored Email Marketing Custom Metric 02
Number Targeted Email Marketing Custom Metric 03
Other Bounces Email Marketing Custom Metric 04
QA Your Data
•
Create a report in the Marketing Cloud UI Analytics section.
•
Filter for a certain campaign or campaigns.
•
Reprocess the Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence (to make sure you’re viewing the latest
data).
•
Create a Pivot Table/Report/Widget with the same filtering applied and compare the numbers.
Salesforce Marketing Cloud For Email & Mobile API Connector
Salesforce Marketing Cloud is a platform for delivering relevant, personalized journeys across channels
and devices - enabling marketers to deliver the right message at the right time throughout all phases of
the relationship. This API connector can be used to retrieve Email data from Email Studio, including
device, browser, operating system, geolocation and domain breakdowns, and campaign details.
For more information about Marketing Cloud, click here.
The SFMC API pulls data from your Marketing Cloud instance via an S3 extract. If this is the first time
Marketing Cloud Intelligence is requesting this data extract for your Marketing Cloud instance, you can
pull data for 180 days back.
•
Channel: Email Marketing
•
Data Stream Type: Messaging
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
289

=== PAGE 294 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Prerequisites
•
To connect to the Salesforce Marketing Cloud API, you need a valid username and password with
Email Studio and API access.
•
The user must have Enterprise-level access.
•
The user must also be an Admin and Marketing Cloud Admin.
•
This API connector supports the following account type:
- Enterprise 1.0
- Enterprise 2.0
- Core or Connect
The user must have access to the parent member otherwise the authentication will fail.
•
If you want to access Journey Builder, MobileConnect, and MobilePush data make sure you have API
access to the relevant features as well. If you don’t have the required access information or encounter
any issues, contact your Marketing Cloud representative.
When setting up your permissions for Marketing Cloud, under Marketing Cloud Intelligence (Datorama),
select the Enable Intelligence (Datorama) Integration checkbox.
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the Enterprise and Members (also known as Business Units in
Marketing Cloud) you want to retrieve data for. To retrieve the data for all Members, leave this field
empty.
Extended Properties
•
Time Zone - From the dropdown list, select the time zone you want to report daily data on. It’s highly
recommended you set the same time zone that is used for Marketing Cloud Enterprise to avoid data
discrepancies.
•
Get Test Emails - Select this checkbox to retrieve test emails in addition to the existing data. To view
the Dimensions and Measurements retrieved, see Email below.
•
Get Journey Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve enriched Dimensions of Email and Mobile Push
data in addition to the data retrieved by the API by default. To view the Dimensions and
Measurements retrieved, see Journey below.
•
Get MobileConnect Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve SMS data from MobileConnect, in addition
to the Email data retrieved by the API by default. To view the Dimensions and Measurements
retrieved, see MobileConnect below.
•
Get MobilePush Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve push notification data from MobilePush, in
addition to the Email data retrieved by the API by default. To view the Dimensions and Measurements
retrieved, see MobilePush below.
Available Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements and Dimensions
The following tables display the available Measurement and Dimensions that will be mapped depending
290

=== PAGE 295 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
on the checkboxes you select in Extended Properties. By default, Marketing Cloud Intelligence
automatically pulls Email data, if you want to also pull Journey Builder, MobileConnect, or MobilePush
data, you must make sure you select the appropriate checkbox in Extended Properties (as described
above).
Note For unmapped fields, check the relationship of the field and map accordingly. For example, if
email name
acts as an attribute for
message send key
, map as message send key attribute.
Email
Source Type Mapping
Campaign End Date (Formula) Dimension Campaign End Date
Campaign Key Dimension Campaign Key
Campaign Name Dimension Campaign Name
Campaign Start Date (Formula) Dimension Campaign Start Date
Campaign Status Dimension Campaign Status
Country Dimension Country
Event Date Dimension Day
Email Delivered Time Dimension Message Send Date
Email Domain Dimension Recipient Domain
Email From Email Dimension Message Send Sender Email
Email From Name Dimension Message Send Sender
Email Job Id Dimension Message Send Key
Email Job Status Dimension Message Send Status
Email Job Type Dimension Message Send Type
Email Name Dimension Message Send Name
Email Pre Header Dimension Message Send Pre Header
Email Subject Dimension Message Send Subject
Enterprise Id Dimension Message Send Enterprise ID
291

=== PAGE 296 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Source Type Mapping
Enterprise Name Dimension Message Send Enterprise
Member ID Dimension Message Send Advertiser ID
Member Name Dimension Message Send Advertiser
Message Type Dimension Message Send Subtype
Region Dimension Region
City Dimension Unmapped
Email Client Dimension Unmapped
Email Device Dimension Unmapped
Email Device Browser Dimension Unmapped
Email Operating System Dimension Unmapped
emailName Dimension Unmapped
Metro Code Dimension Unmapped
Email Bounces Measurement Message Bounces
Email Unique Clicks Measurement Message Total Clicks
Email Deliveries (Formula) Measurement Message Deliveries
Email Unique Opens Measurement Message Total Opens
Email Sends Measurement Message Sends
Email Unique Unsubscribes Measurement Message Total Unsubscribes
Note While Unique Clicks, Unique Opens, and Unique Unsubscribes are mapped to Message Total
Clicks, Message Total Opens, and Message Total Unsubscribes, they are the Unique Measurement
values.
Mobile Connect
The following Measurements and Dimensions are retrieved when connecting to your Marketing Cloud
account:
The following Dimensions and Measurements are also retrieved when selecting the Get MobileConnect
Data checkbox in Extended Properties:
Source Type Mapping
Campaign End Date Dimension Campaign End Date
292

=== PAGE 297 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Source Type Mapping
Campaign Key Dimension Campaign Key
Campaign Name Dimension Campaign Name
Campaign Start Date Dimension Campaign Start Date
Campaign Status Dimension Campaign Status
Country Dimension Country
Date Dimension Day
Enterprise ID Dimension Message Send Enterprise ID
Enterprise Name Dimension Message Send Enterprise
Member ID Dimension Message Send Advertiser ID
Member Name Dimension Message Send Advertiser
Member Type Dimension Message Send Subtype
SMS Message ID Dimension Message Send Key
SMS Message Name Dimension Message Send Name
SMS Message Status Dimension Message Send Status
SMS Message Text Dimension Message Send Content
SMS Message Type Dimension Message Send Type
SMS Keyword Dimension Unmapped
SMS Origin Dimension Unmapped
SMS Short Code Dimension Unmapped
SMS Deliveries (Formula) Measurement Message Deliveries
SMS Undelivered Measurement Message Bounces
Inbounds Measurement Unmapped
SMS Outbound Responses Measurement Unmapped
Journey
The following Dimensions are also be retrieved when selecting the Get Journey Data checkbox in
Extended Properties:
293

=== PAGE 298 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Source Type Mapping
Journey Activity Name Dimension Journey Activity Name
Journey Activity Type Dimension Journey Activity Type
Journey ID + Journey Version Dimension Journey Key
Journey Name Dimension Journey Name
Journey Status Dimension Journey Status
Journey Version Dimension Journey Version
Contact Entry Mode Dimension Unmapped
Journey Created Date Dimension Unmapped
Journey Description Dimension Unmapped
Journey Last Published Date Dimension Unmapped
Journey Last Modified Date Dimension Unmapped
MobilePush
The following Dimensions and Measurements will also be retrieved when selecting the Get MobilePush
Data checkbox in Extended Properties:
Source Type Mapping
Campaign End Date Dimension Campaign End Date
Campaign Key Dimension Campaign Key
Campaign Name Dimension Campaign Name
Campaign Start Date Dimension Campaign Start Date
Campaign Status Dimension Campaign Status
Date Dimension Day
Member ID Dimension Message Send Advertiser ID
Member Name Dimension Message Send Advertiser
Push Message Content Push Message Content
Push Message Content Type Dimension Push Message Content Type
Enterprise ID Dimension Message Send Enterprise ID
Enterprise Name Dimension Message Send Enterprise
294

=== PAGE 299 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Source Type Mapping
Push Message ID Dimension Message Send Key
Push Message Name Dimension Message Send Name
Push Message Status Dimension Message Send Status
Message Type Dimension Message Send Subtype
Push Message Type Dimension Message Send Type
Push Application Id Dimension Recipient Application Key
Push Device ID Dimension Unmapped
Push Device Name Dimension Unmapped
Push Device OS Version Dimension Unmapped
Push Device Type Dimension Unmapped
Push Geofence Name Dimension Unmapped
Push Message Subtitle Dimension Unmapped
Push Message Title Dimension Unmapped
Push Operating System Dimension Unmapped
Push Page URL Dimension Unmapped
Push Message Failures Measurement Message Failures
Push Sends Measurement Message Sends
Push Opens Measurement Message Total Opens
Push Opt-Ins Measurement Opt In
Push Opt-Outs Measurement Opt Out
Push Time in App Measurement Time in App
Push Time in App Open Measurement Unmapped
Known Issues and Limitations
Email meta-data and engagement data, stored in the Marketing Cloud database is only accessible to
third party apps, such as Marketing Cloud Intelligence through daily extracts. Marketing Cloud, exports
the data to an Amazon S3 bucket on a daily basis. The Marketing Cloud Intelligence API then reads the
data from the S3 bucket, aggregates it, and stores it on the Marketing Cloud Intelligence data model.
The data in the S3 bucket is deleted after 90 days (to comply with the GDPR regulations) the deletion
295

=== PAGE 300 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
causes some of the limitations listed below:
•
First Time Creating a Data Stream - The first time you create a Data Stream with your Enterprise
account, a background provisioning process takes place enabling your Salesforce Marketing Cloud
account to access this data. This process could take a couple of hours to complete and can cause the
Data Stream to fail during initial data retrieval with a specific error - Initial Retrieval Timeout. You can
either reprocess your data stream manually after a few hours, or it will reprocess and fix itself the next
day.
•
Send Date Dimension - The Send Date dimension for triggered (by journey or API) emails will not be
available if more than 90 days have passed since the original send date. For example, if you send out
an email for a specific campaign on January 1, 2021, and it was opened or clicked on April 1 2021, the
send date dimension will not be available, so any engagement data from that email campaign will not
have a send date since 90 days have passed since the original send date (January 1, 2021). Note: This
limitation doesn’t affect standard emails.
•
Campaigns Dimension - There are several limitations to the campaign dimension as follows:
- Engagement data for campaigns created over 90 days ago won’t have the campaign information.
- In Marketing Cloud you can assign several campaigns, while in Marketing Cloud Intelligence the
data model only allows for one campaign, if you assigned several campaigns Marketing Cloud
Intelligence selects the first one.
- If the campaign code changes after the first time it’s set, Marketing Cloud Intelligence won’t reflect
those changes.
- Campaign data won’t populate if the campaign is assigned to the email after the email was sent.
•
MobileConnect Message Definition - Messages can be created more than 90 days before the
message is sent, in a case like this, the message information attached to the measurements won’t be
available. For example, the message information attached to the measurement, such as Message
Name won’t be available.
•
MobileConnect and Journey - Journey data is not pulled for MobileConnect data. All Journeys
appears as 'Default Journey' or 'N/A'
•
Geolocation - The geolocation is derived from the IP address. Consumer rights (GDPR) can block the
reporting of the IP address, making the data you have on geolocation incomplete. Another common
issue with the accuracy of geolocations is the use of VPNs and Proxy Servers that cause the IP address
to be unreliable and inaccurate in determining the geolocation.
Note Geolocation is only available for engagement metrics.
•
Content with Special Characters - When files contain special characters (non-ASCII) for example
Spanish or Japanese, any data that contains multiple lines, could fail during parsing. When using non-
English characters it’s recommended to check the Disable Multiple Parsing and Enable non-ASCII
parsing checkbox. This checkbox parses non-English characters but can’t parse multiline, so it only
pulls the first line of each field.
How to QA Your Data
For Intelligence Reports for Engagement, complete the following steps:
•
Go to the Marketing Cloud Report Builder.
•
Navigate to: Analytics Builder > Marketing Cloud Intelligence Reports > Pivot Tables
296

=== PAGE 301 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Compare the totals of specific emails between Marketing Cloud Intelligence and Intelligence Reports
for Engagement.
Marketing Cloud Configuration Best Practices
For an optimal view of your Marketing Cloud Intelligence data, consider these best practices:
•
Avoid special characters. Special characters and emoji in Marketing Cloud aren’t supported. They’re
replaced with the replacement character
•
Create a unique Campaign Code. The Campaign Code from Marketing Cloud will be mapped to
Campaign Key in Marketing Cloud Intelligence and the key must be unique to ensure proper data
aggregation
•
After a Campaign Code is set, don’t change it. Campaign Code in MC is a freeform field that can be
manually changed after it is entered. If the Campaign Code changes after the time its first set, the
change won’t be reflected.
•
Assign the Campaign Key and Name prior to sending the email. Campaign data doesn’t populate if the
campaign is assigned to the email after it was sent
•
Assign only one campaign per message. The Marketing Cloud Intelligence data model can only link
one message to one Campaign Key.
•
Because of the Campaign Name nuances, it’s best to leverage the Message Send Name for any naming
convention.
Salesforce Account Engagement API Connector
Marketing Cloud Account Engagement (Pardot) is Salesforce’s B2B marketing automation solution. If
you’re a business that sells to other businesses (or B2B), Account Engagement can automate your
marketing activities and unite your marketing and sales departments so that they can work better
together.
•
Channel: Email Marketing, Lead Generation, Sales, Forms
•
Data Stream Type: Messaging (for Account Engagement Email Marketing data); CRM Leads (for
Account Engagement Prospects data); CRM (for Account Engagement Opportunities data);
Conversions (for Account Engagement Forms data)
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
•
New Account Engagement data streams - To connect to a new data stream you must use the
credentials of an SSO-enabled Salesforce user who has Account Engagement access.
- In cases where the organization section displays “Manual Business Unit ID Input”, insert your
Business Unit ID in the extended properties section. To find your Business Unit ID:
- Log into Salesforce using the same account you use to log into Account Engagement.
- Go to Setup > Account Engagement > Business Unit Setup.
- The business unit ID (BUID) begins with "0Uv" and is 18 characters long.
•
Existing Account Engagement data streams - will continue to work using the legacy authentication
297

=== PAGE 302 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
method (API Key & Account Engagement User name). However, we strongly recommend that you
reauthenticate using the new approach, leveraging the BUID (if needed) as described earlier.
Details
Data is retrieved according to a Daily breakdown and not LIFETIME. In order to retrieve LIFETIME data,
process the Data Stream from the Campaign start date.
In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, data is tracked by the day, therefore a measurement such as 'Opens'
increases over time as more people open the email. For example, if you filter on the send date of Jun 14,
you’ll see a discrepancy between Marketing Cloud Intelligence and Account Engagement.
General Setup
In this section, after entering your credentials, select the relevant Organization you want to retrieve data
for.
Advanced Settings
This section allows you to define advanced settings for your API connector. The settings are the same for
all API connectors.
Extended Properties
•
Get Email Name - Select this checkbox to retrieve the email name when pulling data from Pardot.
Note Retrieving the Email Name dramatically increases the number of API calls that could result
in you reaching your profile’s rate limit (see ‘Known Issues’).
•
Get Prospect Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve prospect data as well as email marketing data.
•
Get Opportunity Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve opportunity data as well as email marketing
data.
•
Business unit ID - In cases where the organization section displays “Manual Business Unit ID Input”,
insert your Business Unit ID as described earlier.
•
Get Forms Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve forms data as well as email marketing data.
Known Issues
Account Engagement has a rate limit for API calls on the profile level that could lead to processing
failures when processing failed statistics or large sets of days. Before engaging in bulk processing, check
your concurrent API calls rate limit under the Pardot User Profile to avoid failures. For more information
about Account Engagement API, see the Account Engagement API documentation.
298

=== PAGE 303 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
How to QA Your Data
This section describes how to make sure your Data is working in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
•
Create the desired report within Marketing Assets in the Salesforce Account Engagement platform for
the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table or Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Deleting Account Engagement Data
Deleting your Account Engagement connector only deletes email marketing data and not CRM leads or
CRM data. This is because the Prospects and Opportunities data is retrieved from Account Engagement
via the CRM data stream types that upload data at the workspace level and not at the data stream level.
You can only delete the CRM-related data from the Dimension Explorer. Complete the following steps to
delete the CRM related data:
11.. Navigate to Connect & Mix.
22.. Expand the Dimensions tab and select Dimension Explorer.
33.. In the search box, select the entity you want to delete, for example, Lead. Notice that there are two
‘Lead’ entities and two ‘Opportunity’ entities that appear. When deleting an entity, always pick the
bottom entity of the two.
44.. All the data that has been retrieved into the workspace for the selected entity, is displayed. For
example, if ‘Lead’ has been selected then all the leads that have been retrieved into the workspace are
displayed.
55.. Click Delete to delete all the keys within the selected entity, or select the specific key you want to
delete and then click Delete.
Suggested Best Practices
•
It’s recommended to rename the display names for the following dimensions so that you can easily
recognize what each dimension is:
- Message Send Name to Account Engagement Campaign (Email)
- Lead Custom Attribute 01 to Account Engagement Campaign (Leads)
- Opportunity Custom Attribute 01 to Account Engagement Campaign (Opportunities). Custom
Attribute 01 is preserved for longer values. If your values are short, then it’s recommended you map
to another custom attribute to avoid any issues.
•
In order to create interconnectivity at the Account Engagement Campaign level, between the different
data stream types, it’s recommended to create the following two fusions:
- Pardot Campaign (Email) <---> Pardot Campaign (Leads)
- Pardot Campaign (Leads) <---> Pardot Campaign (Opportunities)
These fusions will transitively also fuse between Pardot Campaign (Email) and Pardot Campaign
(Opportunities) meaning that for any Pardot Campaign, you are able to see measurements and
299

=== PAGE 304 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
attributes from all three data stream types.
However, the example assumes that you changed the display names as suggested above, if not, use
the original dimension names.
•
In Account Engagement, prospects don’t have a ‘Status’ dimension, however, the prospect’s status can
be determined from the Prospect’s Stage dimension. It’s recommended to not leave the Marketing
Cloud Intelligence Lead Status dimension unmapped. Instead, you can use a mapping formula to
create the lead status value based on the prospect stage. The following image shows an example of
how this can be set up:
When you set up the above logic yourself, it’s important to apply the appropriate logic according to
what prospect stage values are considered to be prospects that have been converted to opportunities
within your data, for example with a ‘QUALIFIED ’ status, and which are still just leads, for example an
‘UNQUALIFIED ’ status.
Salesforce Reports API Connector
The Salesforce Reports API connector retrieves reports created in Salesforce, in this connector you will
have access to all the reports in Salesforce to which you have permissions for. Since the reports in
Salesforce are customizable, once you save the stream you will be directed to the Mapping screen to
allow you the same level of customization in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
•
A valid Salesforce username and password.
Details
•
Since the date field in Salesforce Reports is customizable, Marketing Cloud Intelligence will not
automatically map the Date Dimension
•
Marketing Cloud Intelligence will always process the most current version of the report from
Salesforce. Note that this means that when reprocessing Salesforce Reports streams, only the latest
version of the report will be retrieved and not the prior version.
•
Salesforce has a limit for the number of rows allowed in a single report (up to 2000 rows per report).
To make sure that all your data is retrieved properly it is advised that you create reports that are
narrowed down to a specific view using filters. A limited report will have a lesser chance of reaching
the row limit.
- You will only have the option to choose from 2,000 total reports. Therefore, if you have over this
amount, you need to either delete some reports or create a new user that will have access only to
the reports you want to fetch, so the list of reports is below the maximum.
•
If your report has changed, check the mapping of the stream and edit accordingly.
•
Data Stream Processing: LIFETIME. Marketing Cloud Intelligence will always pull the most current
version of the report from Salesforce in a LIFETIME method since oftentimes, many of the reports does
300

=== PAGE 305 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
not contain date variables(reports such as leads or opportunities for example), hence processing using
a date range is irrelevant for this API.
Extended Properties
•
Choose the appropriate Data Stream Type - Either CRM, Buy Data or Generic.
Salesforce SOQL Technical Vendor
The connector allows using SOQL to pull data from any Salesforce entity.
You can use Workbench to build your query.
Note Workbench is no longer a supported tool. Contact Salesforce support if you need extra help.
Channel: Salesforce can be used for different purposes, the most common uses relate to the CRM, Buy
Data and Product Data Stream Types. Be sure to check which Data Stream Type best suits your needs, if
no existing Data Stream Type seems appropriate, use the Generic Data Stream Type.
Data Lagging: 1 day.
Prerequisites
•
Salesforce username and password.
Details
•
In the CRM Data Stream Type the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform relies on the Modified Date,
Stage, and Status fields to display the data correctly, therefore it’s important you retrieve these fields.
•
Under Retrieval Settings, choose to exclude deleted or archived Entities by selecting the appropriate
checkbox.
General Settings
•
From the Data Stream Type dropdown list, select the Data Stream Type you’re pulling data for.
•
From the Data Stream Source dropdown list, select the source you’re pulling data for.
•
From the Default Channel Name dropdown list, select the Channel Name you’re pulling data for.
Advanced Settings
This section allows you to define advanced settings for your API connector and are the same for all API
connectors.
301

=== PAGE 306 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Extended Properties
None.
Known Issues
•
Marketing Cloud Intelligence doesn’t support the Sandbox connection.
How to QA Your Data
This section describes how to make sure your Data is working in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
•
Create the desired report in the Salesforce SOQL UI for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Search Ads 360 API Connector
Search Ads 360
•
Channel: Search
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
Since Search Ads 360 derives its permissions from Google Campaign Manager, be sure to enable Search
Data.
Extended Properties
•
Checkboxes – Enables you to upload further attributes according to your Search Ads 360 account
definitions:
- 'Get device breakdown’- This option is checked by default, and pulls an additional Dimension-
‘devicesegment’, which is mapped to ‘Device Category’
- ‘Get Conversions Data’- This option adds the Conversion bucket to the Data Stream, which contains
the following Dimensions and Measurements:
- Conversion Tag Category (‘foodlightgroup’)
- Conversion Tag Key (‘foodlightactivityid’)
- Conversion Tag Name (‘foodlightactivity’)
- Total Conversions (‘dfaTotalConversions’)
- Post Impression Conversions (‘dfaTransactions’)
- Post Click Conversions (‘dfaActions’)
302

=== PAGE 307 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
- Revenue (dfaRevenue)
- ‘Include Removed Entities’ - This option will not add new Dimensions to the Data Stream. This
option means that removed Entities will be pulled as well.
- ‘Get Keyword Data’- This option adds the Search Keywords bucket to the Data Stream, which
contains the following Dimensions and Measurements:
- Search Keyword Key (‘keywordId’)
- Search Keyword (keywordText)
- Search Keyword Match Type (keywordMatchType)
- Search Keyword Status (status)
- Search Keyword Quality Score (qualityScoreCurrent)
- Search Keyword URL (keywordLandingPage)
- Impressions (‘impr’)
- Clicks (‘clicks’)
- Media Cost (‘cost’)
- Position (‘avgPos’)
Search Ads 360 Custom API Connector
Search Ads 360
•
Channel: Search
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
Search Ads 360 credentials with at least Advertiser viewer permissions
When Should I use the Google Search Ads 360 Custom Connector?
The Search Ads 360 API Connector is used to retrieve a predefined set of Dimensions and
Measurements, supplied by Search Ads 360’s API. These Dimensions are mapped within the Ads,
Conversion Tag, Conversion Tag with Keywords, Search Keywords or Conversion Tag Data Stream Types,
depending on the Extended Properties that are selected within the Data Stream. The pre-defined nature
of this API means that creating a Data Stream containing any additional fields other than the predefined
ones is limited and would require a Feature Request.
The Search Ads 360 Custom API Connector allows you to retrieve fields that are not available through
the Standard API, such as Floodlight Dimensions.
Keep in mind that unless you are intending to retrieve a custom set of fields, the standard GSA 360 API
Connector would be a better choice, as it is preset to be accurately mapped to the Data Model, while the
Custom Connector requires manual setup.
303

=== PAGE 308 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
General Setup
Once authenticated you will need to select the Account and the Advertiser you would like to retrieve. The
General, Data Stream Custom Attributes, Advanced and Initial Data Fetch sections in the Data Stream
Settings have the same configuration as the regular GSA 360 Connector.
Extended Properties
•
Report Type- Select the Report Type that you wish to pull. The following Reports are available for
retrieval:
- Account
- Campaign
- AdGroup
- Keyword
- Ad
•
Dimensions - Specify the list of Dimensions you wish to retrieve for the relevant Report as they appear
in the GSA 360 documentation (see above). Ensure that you seperate each Dimension using a comma.
•
Measurements - Specify the list of Measurements you wish to retrieve for the relevant Report as they
appear in the GSA 360 documentation (see above). Ensure that you seperate each Measurement
using a comma.
•
Data Stream Type- Select the Data Stream Type into which the data will be mapped. You can choose
from the following Data Stream Types:
- Ads
- Conversion Tag
- Conversion Tag with Keywords
- Search Keywords
- Generic
SEMrush API Connector
SEMrush is a competitive research platform that allows you to analyze your competitors' domains,
looking into their traffic, relevant keyword, and so on, SEMrush offers different types of data so you can
set up the connector to your liking.
•
Data Lagging: 0 Days
Prerequisites
SEMrush API key. An API key is available as part of the SEMrush API package. When purchasing a
package, note that Marketing Cloud Intelligence uses 'line' requests for live data only.
Details
•
You can validate the data by comparing the Marketing Cloud Intelligence view to the table view under
304

=== PAGE 309 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
each report type, according to the report you chose to retrieve.
•
SEMrush displays in its platform either live data or historical data aggregated to a month granularity.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence retrieves only live data from SEMrush, so data will start to aggregate from
the stream's creation date moving forward. Note, however, that unlike SEMrush, that doesn't enable
viewing the data in a daily granularity, Marketing Cloud Intelligence enables this view.
•
Since the report available in SEMrush displays only the current date's data, you won’t be able to
reprocess past dates in SEMrush streams.
•
The SEMrush data is different in structure from the 'Search Keyword' data model. For example, the
'Position' field is defined as a Dimension in SEMrush, but as a Measurement in Marketing Cloud
Intelligence. Furthermore, in SEMrush the 'Keyword Name' might be linked to several different
'Position' values. Mapping the data 'as is' might cause discrepancies. The best practice for mapping
SeEMrush data is to make sure the 'Keyword Name' and 'Position' fields are linked in a 'many to many'
relationship. Another option is to concatenate the two fields together to create a unique 'Keyword Key'
for every pairing instance.
csv['keyword_name']+ csv['position']
Then map the 'Keyword Name' to the 'Keyword Name' field in the 'Search Keyword' data model, and
map the 'Position' to the 'Keyword Custom Attribute' field.
General Setup
•
Choose the Report you want to retrieve:
- Domain_organic_search_Keywords - corresponding with the 'Positions' report in Semrush Buyer
untargeted Segment Performance report - corresponding with the 'Competitors' report in Semrush.
•
Enter the domain you want to retrieve data for. If no domain is entered, the stream fails .
•
Choose the Database Type. This refers to the Databases available at the top of the report.
•
Select the appropriate Data Stream Type.
SimilarWeb API Connector
SimilarWeb is a digital marketing platform offering a competitive analysis of site traffic.
•
Channel: Social Listening
•
Data Stream Type: Competitive
•
Data Lagging: Retrieves the last full month
Prerequisites
To connect to the SimilarWeb API, you need a valid API Key. Contact your SimilarWeb representative to
receive an API Key.
Details
•
SimilarWeb displays data up to the last month. For example, if the date is May 4 SimilarWeb displays
305

=== PAGE 310 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
data up until April.
•
When reprocessing a SimilarWeb Data Stream, the reprocess retrieves only whole months, even if you
entered only part of a month. For example, if you chose to reprocess Jan 8 to Feb 14, the whole month
of January and February will be retrieved in this reprocess.
•
Data can only be retrieved as far back as 16 months. All the Measurements pulled by the SimilarWeb
connector aren’t summable, except for Visits. The Measurements retrieved are either Rate
Measurements for example, Pages Per Visit or Average Measurements for example, Avg visit duration.
- You might experience inconsistencies when pulling these types of Measurements, as they’re
retrieved from SimilarWeb with calculated values, and not as ‘native’ Measurements.
- It’s recommended to view these Measurements in the lowest granularity available.
•
The Avg Visits Duration Measurement is retrieved from SimilarWeb as seconds. To ensure that it’s
displayed properly in Marketing Cloud Intelligence, change the Measurement type to Duration by
completing the following steps:
- Navigate to Connect & Mix > Measurements > Measurement List
- Filter your Measurements to Avg Visit Duration
- Under Type select Duration
- Click Save
•
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Transposes the data based on the Device entity - SimilarWeb metrics
have the Device Value and Metric Name merged into one. For example, Mobile Visits contains Mobile,
which is a Dimension value and Visits, which is a Measurement. Transposing the data separates the
two fields so that the Device value is mapped to the relevant Dimension, and the Measurement value
is mapped to the relevant Measurement.
- This process adds more rows depending on the number of Device values, but it’s the best way to
process the data so that you can filter the data by device, and so you can easily update any new
devices that are added in the future, without having to update the mapping each time.
•
Marketing Cloud Intelligence pulls worldwide data (if it’s available in the account) by default. If
worldwide data is not available, Marketing Cloud Intelligence pulls data only for the countries available
within the account.
General Setup
In this section you can define the general details. After entering your credentials, select the relevant
Account you want to retrieve data for.
Advanced Settings
This section allows you to define advanced settings for your API connector. These settings are the same
for all API connectors. For more information about the different settings, see API Connector - Advanced
Settings.
Extended Properties
•
Domain- Insert up to five domains you want to pull data for. The domains should be separated by a
comma.
306

=== PAGE 311 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
- Ensure that the domain entered doesn’t include the ‘www’ prefix, for example, salesforce.com and
not www.salesforce.com. Inserting invalid domains results in an error.
How to QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the SimilarWeb UI for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Sizmek API Connector
The Sizmek API connector.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Conversions, Ads Verification
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
•
A valid Sizmek username and password. You must use regular credentials (the username and
password you use to enter the Sizmek platform) not API credentials.
•
The account should have API permissions, to grant permissions contact your Sizmek representative
•
In the Roles & Permission sub-tab, under the Permissions tab, make sure the View all Roles and
Permissions is set to On.
•
The user should be granted with an 'Advertiser' and 'Agency' role that has access to 'Agency Reports' in
Sizmek Analytics. Make sure it doesn't have the 'Site Reporting' role.
•
Under the Full Permissions List make sure the Analytics, Advertiser List (under Advertiser), and Manage
Advertisers (under Advertiser) checkboxes are checked.
•
To QA this setup, log into the selected user account and ensure 'Agency Reports' is visible the left
menu.
Credentials
•
Account = Advertiser
•
Profile = Brand
Extended Properties
•
Location Breakdown – This enables you to add a further Country breakdown to the data retrieved by
the API connector, thus providing a higher level of granularity on which the Measurements can be
sliced.
•
Get Media Cost Data - When this box is checked, a Media Cost Measurement will be retrieved in
307

=== PAGE 312 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
addition to the data retrieved by the API by default. This added report will be mapped to the Ads Data
Stream Type.
•
Get Creative Level Data - When this box is checked, Creative Level data will be retrieved in addition to
the data retrieved by the API by default. This added report will be mapped to the Ads Verification Data
Stream Type.
•
Get Conversions Data - When this box is checked, a Conversions Report will be retrieved in addition to
the data retrieved by the API by default. This added report will be mapped to the Conversion Tags Data
Stream Type.
•
Get Viewability Metrics - When this box is checked, an additional two Measurements called ‘Visible
Impressions’ and ‘Recordable Impressions’ will be pulled and mapped to Marketing Cloud
Intelligence’s ‘View Impressions’ and ‘View Measurable Impressions’ respectively, in addition to the
data retrieved by the API by default. This added report will be mapped to the Ads Verification Data
Stream Type.
•
Conversion Attribution Model – This drop-down allows you to set the Conversion Attribution Model to
the same model defined for your Account on Sizmek under the ‘Conversion Attribution Settings’. Make
sure you check this configuration on Sizmek prior to setting it on Marketing Cloud Intelligence, so that
the two platforms are aligned.
•
Cookie Window Clicks - This drop-down allows you to set the Clicks Conversion Attribution Window.
Make sure you check this configuration on Sizmek prior to setting it on Marketing Cloud Intelligence,
so that the two platforms are aligned.
•
Cookie Window Impressions - This drop-down allows you to set the Impressions Conversion
Attribution Window. Make sure you check this configuration on Sizmek prior to setting it on Marketing
Cloud Intelligence, so that the two platforms are aligned.
Known Issues
•
Sizmek reports are run at a set time, and may not have processed by the time the API is run. This
occurrence could result in the query timing out, displaying an error such as: Provider Report Timeout
in the Data Stream Log. One way to resolve this issue is to overwrite the API runtime by using
Workflows.
Snapchat API Connector
Snapchat Ads is an ads platform that provides three types of advertising - Snap Ads, Snapchat Geofilters,
and Lenses.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Ads
•
The sliding window for the Snapchat API connector is 4.
•
Data Lagging:
- Core Measurements (such as Impressions, Swipes, Video, Spend) have lagging data of 1 day.
- Additional Measurements (such as Frequency, and Unique Measurements) have lagging data of 1
day.
308

=== PAGE 313 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Prerequisites
To connect to Snapchat Ads, you need a valid Username and Password for Snapchat Business. You’ll also
need to have access to at least one Snapchat Business Account.
Details
Following is a list of the main Entities and Measurements retrieved from Snapchat and where they’re
mapped to in Marketing Cloud Intelligence:
Note Deleted campaigns are not retrieved and don’t appear in your data.
Snapchat Fields type Intelligence fields
Campaign Dimension Campaign
Ad Dimension Creative
Device Dimension Device Category
Ad Squad Dimension Media Buy
Targeting Dimension Media Buy
Swipes Measurement Clicks
Screen Time Measurement Display Time
Frequency Measurement Frequency
Paid Impressions Measurement Impressions
Spend Measurement Media Cost
Installs Measurement Social App Installs
Earned Impressions Measurement Social Impressions
Video Completions 25%, 50%,
Video Completion Quartiles Measurement
75%, Fully Played
Video Views Measurement Video Views
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant Ads Account you want to retrieve data for.
Extended Properties
•
Get Conversions Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve conversion data. The following fields are added
309

=== PAGE 314 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
to the Conversion Tag Data Stream Type:
- Total Conversions
- Revenue
- Post Impression Conversions
- Post Click Conversions
- Conversion Tag Name
- Conversion Tag Category
•
Swipe Attribution Window - Select the swipe attribution window that you defined in your Snapchat
account. The following options are available:
- 1 day
- 7 days
- 28 days
•
View Attribution Window - Select the view attribution window that you defined in your Snapchat
account. The following options are available:
- None
- 1 Hour
- 3 Hours
- 6 hours
- 1 day
- 7 days
- 28 days
The following table shows all the combinations of Attribution Windows that are allowed:
View Window swipe window 1 Day Swipe window 7 day swipe window 28 day
None Allowed Allowed Allowed
1 Hour Allowed Allowed Allowed
3 Hour Allowed Allowed Allowed
6 Hour Allowed Allowed Allowed
1 Day Allowed Allowed Allowed
7 Day Not Allowed Allowed Allowed
28 Day Not Allowed Not Allowed Allowed
The default selection for the Attribution Window is: 28 Days swipe, 1-Day view. A wrong combination
of Attribution Windows results in an error and a Data Stream failure.
How to QA Your Data
•
Select the relevant Account from within Snapchat Business. To access the relevant section from which
reports are created, open the Navigation at the top of the page and select Manage Ads
•
You can QA the data from within the Snapchat platform or export the daily data
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact same
310

=== PAGE 315 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Dimensions, Measurements, Filtering, and Date Range, and then compare the numbers.
•
Calculated metrics such as Cost Per Swipe Up aren’t retrieved by the API, but you can create them in
Marketing Cloud Intelligence via the Calculated Measurements feature. Opposed to how it’s displayed
in the Snapchat Ads platform, the Conversion Measurements in Intelligence are transposed.
For example, in the Snapchat Ads platform, there’s a Measurement for each conversion type, Lead,
Purchase, View Content, and so on.
In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, the type of the conversion is returned as a value of a Conversion Tag
Category Dimension, while the metric values of all conversions are available in the Total Conversions
metric in order to align with the Data Model and other platforms.
Socialbakers API Connector
The Socialbakers platform is an AI-powered social media marketing company offering social media
analysis on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, YouTube, LinkedIn, Google+, VK, and Pinterest. With this new
integration, Socialbakers users can retrieve their owned accounts data across different social media
platforms.
•
Channel: Social
•
Data Stream Type: Social Object
•
Data Lagging: 1 day
Prerequisites
To connect to the Socialbakers API, you need a valid Token and Secret Key. The token and secret key are
linked to a specific user of a Socialbakers Suite account. Contact support@socialbakers.com to get yours.
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant accounts and social profiles you want to retrieve data
for. Leave the social profiles selection empty to retrieve all profiles.
Extended Properties
•
Get Insights Metrics - Select this checkbox to retrieve insights metrics in addition to the data retrieved
by the API by default. Note that these metrics are available only for your Instagram and Facebook
pages.
How to QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Socialbakers platform for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
311

=== PAGE 316 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Social Studio API Connector
Salesforce Social Studio is a Management Center and Social Listening Platform for owned social accounts
on popular social networks, such as Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest, and Google+. It’s
also a platform for Social Listening.
•
Channel: Social, Social Listening
•
Data Stream Type: Social Objects, Social Listening
•
Data Lagging: 0 Days
Note As of May 2, 2024, Marketing Cloud Social Studio Connector is no longer supported. After this
date, data streams can no longer be created or updated. Data pulled by existing data streams
continues to be available in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for reporting and use in dashboards. For
additional information, please contact our support team.
Prerequisites
To connect to Salesforce Social Studio, you need a valid username and password.
Details
•
The connector shows LIFETIME type Measurements. LIFETIME Measurements display the
accumulated value of the Measurement as of the current date.
•
When a Salesforce Social Studio Data Stream is created, all posts from the Creation Date of your Social
Accounts are retrieved. Topic Profiles allows reports to be exported up to 90 days back, while Managed
Accounts pulls all available posts - including those that were created further back than 90 days.
•
Entries in the Data Stream Log appear under the processing date of the extraction date (‘Today’).
•
When processing the Data Stream, there’s no date selection, as all data for all posts is retrieved until
today and assigned a date value that is identical to the day of processing.
•
Measurement data retrieved for all posts is accurate as of the date when processing takes place.
•
In order to prevent potential data inaccuracies, Data Streams in LIFETIME Aggregation don’t allow for
any failed retrievals to be reprocessed post-failure. For example, if a Data Stream retrieval failed on
January 1, 2019 at 8 AM, a minute later the data will be updated and refreshed, and the data available
for retrieval on the platform will no longer reflect what was attempted to be retrieved a minute prior.
Reprocessing the failed retrieval on January 2 would mean that the data didn’t exist in the platform on
January 1 and therefore would be attributed to January 1. This would be a misrepresentation and
could lead to serious inaccuracies.
•
Because of the nature of LIFETIME Measurements, after data is deleted from a Salesforce Social Studio
Data Stream, the deleted data is not accessible for retrieval through reprocessing.
•
In order to reprocess data retrieved in the past without actually deleting any data - for example, to
accommodate changes in mapping - the Re-Run Files option can be used, which is located under the
‘Log’ button in the Data Streams Management menu.
312

=== PAGE 317 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
General Setup
After a Workspace is selected, you can choose to retrieve a single or several Accounts and Topics. Leave
the field empty to retrieve all Accounts and Topics. Social listening data contains a high amount of data
by nature, therefore retrieving many Topics could cause the Data Stream to timeout. If this happens, try
reducing the number of Topics per Data Stream.
Advanced Settings
This section allows you to define advanced settings for your API connector. The settings are the same for
all API connectors.
Known Issues
Due to Twitter's legal limitations that block the transfer of Twitter posts to third party applications, certain
Twitter Dimensions aren’t retrieved by Marketing Cloud Intelligence. Nevertheless, Measurements
associated with these posts will be retrieved.
How to QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in Social Studio.
•
Under Format, select CSV.
•
In the Schedule section click to expand.
•
Select Once and then click Save Changes.
•
Click the down arrow to the right of View Results and then click Run Now.
•
Go back to your reports list and click the report you just created.
•
Click Download.
•
In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Salesforce Social Studio Topic Profiles allows reports to be exported up to 90 days back, while Marketing
Cloud Intelligence pulls all available posts – including those that were created further back than 90 days.
So, when you compare Measurement Totals between Salesforce Topic Profiles and Intelligence, either
compare specific posts, or make sure you’re looking at the same date range.
Use Scheduled Reports to Integrate Social Studio with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Salesforce Social Studio is a Management Center and Social Listening Platform for owned social accounts
on popular social networks, such as Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest.
This article goes over the recommended approach when using scheduled reports to push Social Studio
data into Marketing Cloud Intelligence using TotalConnect.
313

=== PAGE 318 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Social Studio API Versus Scheduled Reports: Social Studio API
•
Data ingested via the dedicated Social Studio API returns mentions over the past 30 days as a lifetime
measurement.
•
You would need dedicated Topic Profiles for Social Studio/Intelligence analysis, which would result in
double consumption of Social Studio EMV.
•
Keyed off Social Post ID, which means a 1:1 ratio of mentions vs. row consumption Intelligence
(expensive).
Social Studio API Versus Scheduled Reports: Scheduled Reports from Social
Studio
•
Greater control on data entering Marketing Cloud Intelligence - Can be scheduled from a Keyword
Group level, rather than the entire Topic profile.
•
Historical data can be consumed on the day the mentioned happened allowing for trending analysis.
•
Custom key aggregating post count at the day and custom dimension level - significant reduction in
row consumption.
•
Scheduled reports allow you to pull in the data at a Keyword Group level (KWG), which allows for
Share of Voice or Category trending that the API approach doesn't allow. The data on this dashboard
for scheduled reports is represented by the green segment, whereas the data returned from an API
connection returns all KWGs.
Social Studio Report Data Points: Data Selection from Social Studio
Let’s go over the setup on Social Studio’s end first.
To provide the maximum amount of control for data pushed into Marketing Cloud Intelligence, we’d
recommend using Social Studio reports. Using scheduled reports gives you greater control over the data
ingested into Intelligence, which then impacts the volume of rows consumed.
Selecting ‘CSV’ as the export format of your report allows you to customize the fields that you want set as
part of your report.
Here’s a breakdown of the suggested Social Studio Report Data Points and what they represent:
Social Studio Report Data Points What this data point represents
Language The language the post has been classified
Media Provider of Post Media origin
Post Type Type of engagement, limited to tweets (retweets,
quotes, replies - and so on)
Published Date The date the post/content was published,
different to harvest date that represents when
314

=== PAGE 319 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Social Studio Report Data Points What this data point represents
Social Studio ingested the post into our database.
Region Country of origin
Sentiment Sentiment as classified in Social Studio
Workflow - Author Tag Tags applied via social automate or manually
inside Social Studio engage or analyze.
Workflow - Post Tag Tags applied via social automate or manually
inside Social Studio engage or analyze.
Within the ‘filters’ section we would then set up an individual report for each of the keyword groups that
are set up inside of that topic profile.
A topic profile is a social media search tool created in Social Studio, you can learn more about it here.
It may also be that you don’t want all of the keyword group mentions being passed through into
Marketing Cloud Intelligence and this will be a great way of controlling that data flow without having to
build dedicated Topic Profiles inside of Social Studio which will cause duplicate mentions (which is one
of the primary license charges for Social Studio).
Within the ‘filters’ section we would then set up an individual report for each of the keyword groups that
are set up inside of that topic profile. A topic profile is a social media search tool created in Social Studio,
you can learn more about it here. It may also be that you don’t want all of the keyword group mentions
being passed through into Marketing Cloud Intelligence and this will be a great way of controlling that
data flow without having to build dedicated Topic Profiles inside of Social Studio, which will cause
duplicate mentions (which is one of the primary license charges for Social Studio).
Marketing Cloud Intelligence: Initial Data Mapping
Now that we know how to configure our reports in Social Studio, let’s look at how to ingest those reports
in Intelligence.
If you’ve built your Social Studio reports as suggested above, we’d recommend the following mapping
logic in Intelligence. Select TotalConnect and choose the ‘Social Listening’ data stream type.
Important: In case you have a Social Studio environment that operates across multiple timezones,
ensure that your data load mode is set to ‘Upsert’. The reason for this is that your Social Studio tenant
may have a different timezone set than the country you work in. As a result you’re likely to get some
overlap of data day-on-day, using upsert will overlook data matches and only update new data points.
This is also particularly useful if changes are made to the data inside of Social Studio. Maybe new labels,
author tags or sentiment changes have been made since the initial upload. Having your Social Studio
report set to the last 7 days and the data mode set to upsert, will accommodate these changes to the
data set for the rolling period.
315

=== PAGE 320 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The following table shows the fields from Social Studio and how they should be mapped to Intelligence's
data model fields:
Social Studio Intelligence Model Additional Formula
Not available in raw Social Social Mention Key
var formatedDate =
Studio data, needs to be created
FORMATDATE(csv['PUBLISH_DA
in Intelligence
TE'],"MM/dd/yy");
formatedDate+'-
'+csv['REGION']+'-
'+csv['LANGUAGE']+'-
'+csv['MEDIA_PROVIDER']+'-
'+csv['POST_TYPE']+'-
'+csv['SENTIMENT']+'-
'+csv['WORKFLOW_AUTHORTAG
S']+'-
'+csv['WORKFLOW_BLOGPOSTT
AGS']
Language Social Mention Language
Media Provider of Post Social Mention Name
Post Type Social Mention Type
Published Date Day
Region Country
Sentiment Social Mention Sentiment
Workflow - Author Tag Social Mention Custom Attribute
1
Workflow - Post Tag Social Mention Custom Attribute
2
N/A Social Mention Count See note below
Note Using the ‘FORMATDATE’ function strips out the timestamp, which is part of the Publish_Date
dimension. If you want to view the data on an hourly basis, you can leave this format function out
and just concatenate all Social Mention Fields. However, this would result in a significant increase in
row consumption, which will likely be 1:1 (1 SS mention = 1 Intelligence row). If you do apply the
‘FORMATDATE’ function, the result would be, for example, 4.5 K mentions over a 7 day period = 321
Intelligence rows. If you want to represent multiple keyword groups separately you need to schedule
individual reports by Keyword Group.
316

=== PAGE 321 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Data Warnings
•
Max download allowance in Social Studio is 500 K posts in one data pull, you may need to refine your
Keyword Groups if you hit this limit.
•
Even without Post ID you'll still return a row per mention
Spotify Ads API Connector
Spotify Ad Studio is an ad server that provides tools for advertisers to create campaigns and track them
in Spotify, a digital music service. Through Spotify's integration with Marketing Cloud Intelligence, you
can access your Ad Studio campaign data within Intelligence's platform.
Note The Spotify Ads connector was updated to the latest API version V2. Due to this update,
Platform/Country breakdown is no longer available, and these fields were deprecated: Dimensions:
Campaign Advertiser and Campaign Advertiser Id, Measurements: Serves. As a result, data pulled by
the API doesn’t populate the respective mapped fields’ values. Values retrieved from previous API
runs will remain in the database, and will be available for reporting purposes. Due to the upgrade
introduced to the API by Spotify, expect longer retrieval and processing times for Spotify Ads data
streams.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Ads, Conversion Tag
•
Data Lagging: 1 day
Prerequisites
To connect to the Spotify Ads API, you need a valid username and password.
Note Only Ad Studio campaigns can be pulled in. All other account types don’t appear.
Details
•
When setting the end time for a report, the data includes the following hour (For example, a report
with an end time of 23:00 will include data through 23:59)
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant profile you want to retrieve data for.
Extended Properties
•
Get Conversions - Select this checkbox to retrieve Conversion data in addition to the Delivery data
retrieved by the API by default.
317

=== PAGE 322 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
How to QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Spotify Ad Studio platform for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a report, table widget, or pivot table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same dimensions and measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Sprout Social API Connector
With the Sprout connector you can pull analytics of owned social profiles you’ve integrated with Sprout.
Profile-level data is shown in PST and Post-level data is shown according to the social channels own
timezone. Sprout Social is a social channel connector and the data stream type is social objects and
Lifetime.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
To create a Sprout Social API data stream, you need:
•
Provisioned Sprout account for API use.
•
Access token— found in the sprout account settings dialog.
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select Sprout Social.
44.. To add a new data source authentication, click Add New and enter your API key.
55.. Set the duration for the initial data fetch.
66.. To change the mapping, click Mapping. You can also access mapping by clicking Map to Model at the
bottom of the Create New Stream page.
77.. To define advanced settings for the data stream, at the bottom of the Create New Stream page, click
Advanced Settings.
88.. Click Create.
99.. Quality check your data.
Create a report in Sprout Social for the selected date range.
Process the relevant data stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence filtered to the same date range.
Create an identical report or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence with the same date range,
dimensions, and measurements.
Compare and make sure that the measurement totals are aligned.
318

=== PAGE 323 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Synthesio API Connector
Synthesio is a social intelligence tool that provides the ability to listen to and analyze consumer
conversations across social and mainstream media.
•
Channel: Social Listening
•
Data Stream Type: Social Listening
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
To connect to the Synthesio API, you need a valid username and password.
Details
•
The connector retrieves Mentions data that is available under the Listen section in the Synthesio
platform.
•
Breakdowns available under the Analyze section can be generated using the Mentions attributes in the
platform. For example, an equivalent view of the Gender breakdown found in the ‘Demographic’ page
can be created using the ‘Social Mention Author Gender’ Dimension and the ‘Social Mention Count’
Measurement.
•
In some Mentions, some fields may be missing due to copyright rules:
- For Mentions from some websites, the Content field won’t be provided.
- For Twitter mentions, all information provided by Twitter is hidden. Only Synthesio additions are
available.
•
Due to these limitations and the fact that currently, the retrieved data has no corresponding view in
Synthesio, minor inconsistencies may occur.
•
To validate your data, compare it to the data exported from the ‘Mentions (beta)’ section. The
exported file includes all the relevant ‘Mentions’ which is closest to the data retrieved by the API.
General Setup
•
After you’ve logged into your Synthesio account, you can now select the Dashboard and Topics you’re
pulling data for.
•
After you select a Dashboard, all the Topics/Subtopics for that Dashboard appear in the Topics
dropdown list.
•
You can select a single topic, multiple topics, or none if you want to retrieve all the topics and
subtopics for the selected Dashboard.
Retrieving Topics that have a large number of posts can cause timeouts — try reducing the number of
topics per Data Stream.
319

=== PAGE 324 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Extended Properties
•
Get Mention Level Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve mention level data, such as the Mention ID,
Text, Author, etc. This checkbox is selected by default.
How to QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Synthesio UI for the required date range. (Currently, only Facebook
reports can be retrieved.)
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the same
Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Taboola API Connector
Content recommendation platform.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
Client Id and client secret, contact your Taboola representative to receive these credentials.
Extended Properties
Choose the Report you want to retrieve in the connector:
•
Campaign Summary
•
Summary by Day
•
Summary by Site
•
Summary by Country
•
Summary by Platform
Known Issues
•
The Taboola API connector only supports owned accounts.
Choose the appropriate Data Stream Type.
TikTok Ads API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the TikTok connector to retrieve data from the TikTok Ads Manager platform. You can then create
320

=== PAGE 325 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
campaigns and track them in TikTok.
The data stream type is ads, and the data lagging is 1 day.
Create a TikTok Ads Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To create and manage TikTok reports, create a TikTok data stream.
Create a TikTok Ads Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To create and manage TikTok reports, create a TikTok data stream.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
To connect to TikTok ads, you need a valid username and password for TikTok Business.
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, under Data Streams, click Add New.
22.. Select TikTok Ads.
33.. In the General section, select the account that you want to pull data for. To add a data source
authentication, click Add New and enter your TikTok credentials.
44.. Set the time period for the initial data fetch.
You can process data up to the past 180 days.
55.. In the Extended Properties section, choose which properties you want to set.
••
To retrieve in-app event stats, select Get in-App Conversion Data.
For an in-app event, the type is mapped to the Conversion Tag Name field, and the value is mapped
to the Total Conversions field. The connector pulls both unique and total in-app event metrics. A
unique in-app event is mapped to the total conversion Marketing Cloud Intelligence field. Unique
counts are available only for in-app events. Metrics for page events are empty. Values from the total
in-app events are unmapped, and the app_install and real_time_app_install metrics are
empty because they aren’t supported in TikTok.
••
When you select Get In-App Conversion Data, you can also select Get SKAN In-app events to
retrieve data from SKAN in-app event metrics. The data is on the ad-group level.
••
To retrieve information about your top-viewed campaigns, select Get Top View Campaigns Data.
The data is on the ad-group level.
••
To retrieve website page event stats, select Get Page Conversions Data.
The total event count isn't mapped by default. The unique metric, which is mapped to Total
Conversions by default, is empty for page events.
66.. To change the mapping, click Mapping.
77.. To define advanced settings for the data stream, click Advanced.
88.. To add the data stream, click Create.
99.. Check that the data stream is working.
••
In the TikTok Ads platform, create a report for the selected date range.
••
In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, process the data stream filtered to the same date range.
321

=== PAGE 326 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
••
In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, create a report or pivot table with the same date range,
dimensions, and measurements.
••
Compare the reports to make sure that the measurement totals are aligned.
The Trade Desk (My Reports) API Connector
A Demand-Side Platform (DSP) that allows ad buyer teams to manage data-driven digital advertising
campaigns across various advertising formats, including display, video, and social, on a multitude of
devices.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Ads, Conversion Tag
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
To connect to The TradeDesk My Reports API, you need a valid username, password and Partner ID, that
has access to the My Reports reporting system. To enable API for your user, contact your The TradeDesk
representative and request API access for your Partner and 3rd party API access to My Reports.
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the Partner and Advertisers you want to retrieve data for. Leave the
Advertisers field empty if you want to pull data for all advertisers.
Extended Properties
•
Location Breakdown- Select one of the available options to add further breakdowns to the data
retrieved by the API, resulting in a higher level of granularity on which the Measurements can be
sliced. The following Breakdowns are available when pulling data from the TradeDesk My Reports API,
in addition to the standard data being pulled:
- Country - Select this to pull country data and add the Dimension ‘Country’ to the dataset.
- Region - Select this to pull Regional data and add the Dimension ‘Region’ to the dataset.
- Metro - Select this to pull Metro data and add the Dimension ‘Metro’ to the dataset.
- City - Select this to pull City data and add the Dimension ‘City’ to the dataset.
Note
- You can only select one type of Location Breakdown in any given TradeDesk My Reports API
Data Stream; however, each consecutive selection will pull the previously listed dataset. For
example, if you select Region the Data Stream will retrieve both Country and Region, if you
select Metro, the Data Stream will retrieve Country, Region, and Metro, etc.
- After a Location Breakdown is selected, Creative Data and Frequency are not pulled.
•
Get Conversions Data- Select this checkbox to retrieve conversion data. The following fields will be
added and mapped to the Conversion Tag Data Stream Type:
- Total Conversions Revenue
322

=== PAGE 327 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
- Post Impression Revenue
- Post Impression Conversions
- Post Click Revenue
- Post Click Conversions
- Conversion Tag Name
How to QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Trade Desk My Reports platform for the required date range:
- In the Trade Desk platform, go to REPORTS > My Reports
- Select Basic Performance Stats. If you breakdown the data by location, select Geo Insights. These
are found in the Standard Report Templates.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions
and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence to the Basic Performance Stats. If you selected a
Location Breakdown, compare the data in Intelligence to the Geo Insights reports.
The Trade Desk (My Reports) Custom API Connector
The Trade Desk (TTD) is a Demand-Side Platform that allows ad buyer teams to manage data-driven
digital advertising campaigns across various advertising formats, including display, video, and social, on a
multitude of devices. The TTD Custom API connector allows you to retrieve a custom set of
Measurements and Dimensions from the API into Marketing Cloud Intelligence. It enables you to pull
data from any of the TTD (My Reports) reports. While the standard TTD (My Reports) API connector is
preset to be automatically mapped to the Data Model, the Custom connector requires manual setup.
•
Channel: Display, Search
•
Data Stream Type: Ads, Conversion Tag, Generic
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
To connect to The TradeDesk My Reports API, you need a valid username, password and Partner ID, that
has access to the My Reports reporting system. To enable API for your user, contact your TTD
representative and request API access for your Partner and third party API access to My Reports.
Details
•
You only need to define the Extended Properties, when pulling a non-standard report.
•
After you’ve defined the TTD (My Reports) Custom API Connector and click Save, you’ll be redirected
to the Mapping screen so you can map the Data Stream. The mapping process is the same as every
other TotalConnect Data Stream. Click here to learn more about Mapping. After you finish mapping
the relevant fields and save, data is retrieved for the period defined in the Initial Data Fetch section of
323

=== PAGE 328 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
the connector.
General Setup
After you’ve entered your credentials, define the information you want to pull data for:
•
Report Templates - Select The Trade Desk report you want to retrieve data for.
•
Advertiser - Select the advertisers you want to retrieve data for. Leave the Advertisers field empty if you
want to pull data for all advertisers.
Extended Properties
•
Data Stream Type - Select one of the available Data Stream Types you want to map your data to. You
can only select one type of Data Stream Type in any given The Trade Desk Custom API Data Stream.
You can map into the following Data Stream Types:
- Ads
- Conversion Tag
- Generic
•
Report Dimensions - Insert the Dimensions you want to retrieve, separated by a comma, exactly as
they appear in the TTD platform. This field is mandatory.
•
Report Measurements - Insert the Measurements you want to retrieve, separated by a comma, exactly
as they appear in the TTD platform. This field is only mandatory when mapping to the Ads Data
Stream Type. If any other Data Stream Type is selected, this field is ignored.
•
Report Conversion - Insert the Conversion Tags you want to retrieve, separated by a comma. When
inserting the Conversion Tags name, only include the tag name, without the tag number. It’s important
to insert ‘Conversion Tag Name’ into the Report Dimensions text box when retrieving Report
Conversions.
This field is only mandatory when mapping to the Conversion Tag Data Stream Type. If any other Data
Stream Type is selected, this field is ignored.
How to QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Trade Desk My Reports platform for the required date range:
- In the Trade Desk platform, go to REPORTS > My Reports
- Select the report you want to create. You can select any of the Standard or Custom reports within
your account.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions
and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence to the Basic Performance Stats. If you selected a
Location Breakdown, compare the data in Intelligence to the Geo Insights reports.
324

=== PAGE 329 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
TubeMogul API Connector
The TubeMogul API connector.
•
Channel: Display, Conversions
•
Data Lagging: 1 Day
Prerequisites
Client ID and Client secret; contact your TubeMogul representative to receive these credentials.
Details
•
The data retrieved matches the data presented in the TubeMogul platform. In the TubeMogul
platform, when pulling reports, there are slight discrepancies between the data displayed on the
platform and the data available in the reports. Since the data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence is
identical to the data in the TubeMogul platform, these slight differences will also appear when
comparing the data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence to the reports pulled from TubeMogul.
Extended Properties
•
Get Conversions Data
•
Get Viewability Metrics
X Social Engagement API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the X Social Engagement API to pull organic data from your X accounts. The X Social Engagement
connector uses the X Engagement API connector. This connector measures the performance of content
using metrics that aren’t available in other X connectors.
X Social Engagement is a social channel connector, the data stream type is social objects, and data
lagging is 1 day.
Create an X Social Engagement Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create an X Social Engagement data stream to pull organic data from your X accounts.
Create an X Social Engagement Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create an X Social Engagement data stream to pull organic data from your X accounts.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
325

=== PAGE 330 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To create an X Social Engagement connector, you need:
•
A valid X ads account.
•
A valid X username and password for the account you want to pull data for.
•
The authenticated user must be the owner of the tweets. This API allows you to pull historical data for
private metrics only for tweets that the authenticated user owns.
11.. On the Connect and Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select the X Social Engagement connector.
44.. In the General section, select the account that you want to pull data for. To add a new data source
authentication, click Add New and enter your X Social Engagement credentials.
55.. Set the time period for the initial data fetch. You can process data up to the past 180 days.
66.. In the Extended Properties section, you can set these properties.
•• •• - To retrieve data in base 10 encoding as they appear in the UI, select Get Ids with base 10
encoding.This checkbox makes sure that your line item IDs, such as Media Buy Key and
Campaign, are retrieved as they appear in the UI and not as they’re retrieved by default in
Datorama.
•• - To retrieve URL clicks and Billed Engagement measurements into the Ads data stream, type select
Get Granular Engagement Data.
•• - To add a conversions report that is mapped to the Conversions Tag data stream, type select Get
Conversions Data.
•• - To retrieve Ad Tweet level data, select Get Tweet Level Data. If you have a variety of campaign
objective levels, consider creating two different data streams to avoid discrepancies: one data
stream with the Get Tweet Level Data selected and the other data stream without it. Setting
appropriate data load rules ensures that each data stream pulls the correct dataset. Conversion
data isn’t retrieved when Tweet Level data is pulled.
•• - To retrieve card data, select Get Cards Data. Cards data is retrieved with card dimensions,
including ID, Name, URL, and Image.
•• - To add more breakdowns, select Additional Segmentation. More breakdowns provide a higher
level of granularity. You can select these segmentations.
•• - Country
•• - Device
•• - To select a specific campaign that you want to pull data for, select an option from the Channel
dropdown.
•• - On X — Pulls data from campaigns that are advertised on X on user timelines.
•• - On all Channels — Pulls data combined from the X and X Audience Platform Channels.
•• - On X Audience Platform — Pulls data for campaigns that have ‘Expand your reach on the X
Audience Platform’ selected. Can be applied in website clicks and conversions, or mobile app
promotion campaigns.
77.. To change the mapping, click Mapping. You can also access mapping by clicking Map to Model at the
bottom of the Create New Stream page.
88.. To define advanced settings, at the bottom of the screen, click Advanced Settings.
99.. Click Create.
1100.. Check your data.
••
Create a report in X Analytics for the selected date range.
326

=== PAGE 331 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
••
Process the relevant data stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
••
Create an identical report or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence with the same date range,
dimensions, and measurements.
••
Compare and make sure that the measurement totals are aligned.
X Ads API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use the X Ads API connector to pull data that helps you target your audiences and promote tweet
campaigns. X Ads is a display channel connector.
The data stream type is ads and conversions, and the data lag is 1 day.
Additional Information on X Ads
•
If you want to pull Cards data, you must have access to view cards in your X account.
•
The sliding window for the X Ads API connector is 7.
•
In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, the values displayed for Impressions, Social Follows, and Total
Engagements measurements are likely higher than the values displayed in the X Ads platform and
reporting due to limitations on the X platform.
- In X, there are three Impression measurements and three Follows measurements, and they include
subsets of these measurements.
- Impressions:
- promoted_account_impressions
- promoted_tweet_search_impressions
- promoted_tweet_timeline_impressions
- Follows:
- promoted_account_follows
- promoted_tweet_search_follows
- promoted_tweet_timeline_follows
In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, the three Impression measurements are aggregated into one
measurement called Impressions, while the three Follows measurements are aggregated into one
measurement called Social Follows. In the X Ads platform and reporting, you can only see the
promoted_account_impressions and promoted_account_follows.
•
X doesn't support conversion data by device on a Tweet (Ad) level, either on the UI level or the API
level. The implication is that when 'Get Conversion Level Data' is selected, additional segmentation is
set to 'Device', and 'Get Tweet Level Data' is selected, conversion data isn’t populated. The proposed
solution is to create two data streams, one that has the tweet level data checked and another data
stream that has the additional segmentation set to 'Device'.
•
Due to an X Ads known issue, if you see your sales amount value in the millions and the amount isn’t
correct, you must divide the sales amount by 1 million. For more information see this X article.
Create an X Ads Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create an X Ads data stream to pull ads data from your X accounts.
327

=== PAGE 332 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create an X Ads Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create an X Ads data stream to pull ads data from your X accounts.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
To create an X Social Engagement connector, you need:
•
A valid username and password for the X account you want to pull data for.
•
To use the X Social Engagement connector, the authenticated user must be the owner of the tweets.
This API allows you to pull historical data for private metrics only for tweets that the authenticated
user owns.
a valid username and password for the X account that you want to pull data from.
11.. On the Connect and Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select the X Ads Social Engagement connector.
44.. In the General section, select the account that you want to pull data for. To add a new data source
authentication, click Add New, and enter your X Ads credentials.
55.. Select your profile.
66.. Set the time period for the initial data fetch. You can process data up to the past 180 days.
77.. In the Extended Properties section, you can set these properties.
To retrieve data in base 10 encoding as they appear in the UI, select Get Ids with base 10 encoding.
This checkbox makes sure that your line item IDs, such as Media Buy Key and Campaign, are
retrieved as they appear in the UI and not as they’re retrieved by default in Marketing Cloud
Intelligence.
To retrieve URL clicks and Billed Engagement measurements into the Ads data stream, select Get
Granular Engagement Data.
To add a conversions report that is mapped to the Conversions Tag data stream, select Get
Conversions Data.
To retrieve Ad Tweet level data, select Get Tweet Level Data. If you have a variety of campaign
objective levels, consider creating two different data streams to avoid discrepancies: one data
stream with the Get Tweet Level Data selected and the other data stream without it. Setting
appropriate data load rules ensures that each data stream pulls the correct dataset. Conversion data
isn’t retrieved when Tweet Level data is pulled.
To retrieve card data, select Get Cards Data. Cards data is retrieved with card dimensions, including
ID, Name, URL, and Image.
328

=== PAGE 333 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To add more breakdowns, select Additional Segmentation. More breakdowns provide a higher level
of granularity. You can select these segmentations:
••
Country
••
Device
To select a specific campaign that you want to pull data for, select an option from the Channel
dropdown:
••
On X — Pulls data from campaigns that are advertised on X on user timelines.
••
On all Channels — Pulls data combined from the X and X Audience Platform Channels.
••
On X Audience Platform — Pulls data for campaigns that have ‘Expand your reach on the X
Audience Platform’ selected. Can be applied in website clicks and conversions, or mobile app
promotion campaigns.
To get the full Tweet text, select Get Tweet Full Text..
88.. To change the mapping, click Mapping. You can access the mapping by clicking Map to Model at the
bottom of the Create New Stream page.
99.. To define advanced settings, at the bottom of the screen, click Advanced Settings.
1100.. Click Create.
1111.. Check your data.
••
Create a report in X Analytics for the selected date range.
••
Process the relevant data stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
••
Create an identical report or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence with the same date range,
dimensions, and measurements.
••
Compare and make sure that the measurement totals are aligned.
Twitter Public (Competitive) API Connector
Twitter Public (Competitive) API Connector
•
Channel: Social, Competitive
Prerequisites
Valid Twitter Username and Password.
Details
•
Not all fields retrieved via the API are automatically mapped; if you wish to include a certain field that's
not mapped by default, use Manual Mapping.
•
Since the Twitter Public API retrieves public data such as Followers, Likes, Retweets, etc., validating
your data should be done by comparing it to those Measurements’ values for the specific element
329

=== PAGE 334 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
you’re tracking on the Twitter platform.
•
All the Measurements in the Twitter Public API are aggregated as LIFETIME; Twitter Public Connector
are also LIFETIME Measurements.
•
Since this Connector only retrieves only the current date's data for the date on which the retrieval takes
place, it isn’t possible to reprocess historical data; you won’t be able to reprocess past dates in Twitter
Public Data Streams.
Extended Properties
•
Twitter Screen Name: Enter the Screen Name you wish to track. You can enter up to 5 Twitter Account
Screen Names separated by a comma, per Data Stream. The Twitter Screen Name is the name after
the @ symbol in Twitter. For example: @pagename - the Twitter Screen Name is pagename.
Verizon Media API Connector
Verizon Media, is an advertising platform that provides simplicity, flexibility and transparency to buying
media, managing campaigns, and maximizing performance.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Ads, Conversion Tag
•
Data Lagging: 1 day
Prerequisites
To connect to the Verizon Media DSP API, you must activate your API access via the DSP user interface.
You need the client ID and secret to create the authentication in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
General Setup
Authenticate your account Enter the Client ID. Enter the Client Secret. Click Save. After entering your
credentials, select the relevant profile you want to retrieve data for.
Extended Properties
•
Get Conversions - Select this checkbox to retrieve Conversion data in addition to the Delivery data
retrieved by the API by default
How to QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the MediaMath platform for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Intelligence containing the exact same Dimensions
and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
330

=== PAGE 335 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Weborama API Connector
Marketing Cloud Intelligence connects to Weborama’s Ad Server solution, retrieving data pertaining to
the marketing activity conducted in Weborama, and its performance.
This Yahoo! Japan Search Ads connector is replacing the Yahoo! Japan Sponsored Search connector.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Types Retrieved: Delivery, Conversions (Optional - see Extended Properties)
•
Data Stream Type: Ads (for Delivery Data), Conversion Tag (For Conversions Data).
•
Data Lagging: 1 day
Prerequisites
Valid User Name and Password; Account ID, obtainable after logging in to the Weborama UI, either
under the Accounts Tab, or as the ID number contained in the URL within the Reports Section.
Extended Properties
By default, the data retrieved will be Ads Delivery data, mapped to the Ads Data Stream Type with the
following sets of Entities and Measurements:
ENTITIES
SOURCE MAPPED TO
Campaign Campaign
Project Campaign Advertiser
Insertion Media Buy
Site Site
MEASUREMENTS
SOURCE MAPPED TO
Impression Impressions
Click Clicks
Total Cost Media Cost
Progress 25 Video Completions 25%
Progress 50 Video Completions 50%
Progress 75 Video Completions 75%
Progress 100 Video Fully Played
331

=== PAGE 336 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
SOURCE MAPPED TO
Skip Video Skips
Engaged View Video True Views
•
Get Conversions - When checked, an additional Measurement, Tracked Conversion will also be
retrieved and mapped to Marketing Cloud Intelligence’s Total Conversions Measurement using the
Conversion Tag Data Stream type (employed by this Connector when this box is checked). Note
however that despite it being a Conversions Measurement, it won’t be retrieved with a Conversion
Name/Tag Dimension, but rather with the same set of Dimensions used in the Ads Data Stream type
seen above.
•
Get Granular Conversion Data - When this box is checked, a flat Conversions Report, including Order
data is retrieved and mapped to the Conversion Tags Data Stream Type. When this box is checked, the
Conversion data that is retrieved will override the 'Get Conversions' report.
How to QA Your Data
•
Generate a report in Weborama by accessing the Reporting Tab, and clicking Campaigns.
•
After you select the relevant Campaign, you’ll be able to select between different Entities by which to
view your data.
•
When you compare your selected Weborama views to Marketing Cloud Intelligence, make sure you’re
looking at the same Date Range, Dimensions, and Measurements in the view you generate in
Marketing Cloud Intelligence - whether it be a Report, a Widget, or a Pivot Table.
•
Start off by simply comparing the Measurement totals and make sure they are aligned.
•
Next, filter the report for a certain Dimension value on both platforms, and make sure that the
Measurement totals are still aligned.
Yahoo Gemini API Connector
Yahoo Gemini is Yahoo’s platform for native advertising and mobile search ads.
•
Channel: Search
•
Data Stream Type: Ads, Search Keywords, Conversion Tag, Conversion Tag with Keyword
•
Data Lagging: 1 day
Prerequisites
To connect to Yahoo Gemini, you need a valid username and password
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant Profile you want to retrieve data for.
332

=== PAGE 337 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Extended Properties
•
Get Conversions Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve conversion data. The following fields are added
to the Conversions Tags Data Stream: Total Conversions, Post Impression Conversions, Post Click
Conversions.
•
Get Creative Level Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve creative data. The following fields are added
to the Ads Data Stream: Creative Title Name, Creative Name, Creative Key, Creative Image, Creative
Click URL.
•
Get Keyword Level Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve keyword data. The following fields will be
added to the Search Keywords Data Stream: Search Keyword Status, Search Keyword Match Type,
Search Keyword Key, Search Keyword.
•
Get Device Level Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve device data. The following field is added:
Device Category.
•
Get Video Metrics Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve video data. The following fields are added to
the Ads Data Stream: Video Views, Video Plays, Video Fully Played, Video Completions 75%, Video
Completions 50%, Video Completions 25%.
Known Issues
•
Due to a Yahoo Gemini limitation, it’s only possible to process a Yahoo Gemini Data Stream up to 13
months back.
How to QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Yahoo Gemini platform for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Yahoo Japan Display API Connector
Yahoo! JAPAN Display delivers ads based on Yahoo’s ad distribution technology on several Yahoo! JAPAN
services such as News, Auction, and Shopping. This API integration allows you to retrieve ad data from
the Yahoo Japan platform.
This connector is the successor of Yahoo! JAPAN YDN API that was deprecated in December 2020.
•
Channel: Display
•
Data Stream Type: Ads
•
Data Lagging: 1 day
333

=== PAGE 338 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Prerequisites
To connect to Yahoo Japan Ads API, you need a valid Yahoo Japan API Account v12 or higher, API
Password, and Account ID. Contact your Yahoo! Japan Display representative to gain API access.
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant account you want to retrieve data for.
Extended Properties
•
Use new Impression measurement - Select this checkbox to retrieve your new Impressions from
Yahoo JAPAN instead of the old impressions
How to QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Yahoo Japan Display platform for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
Yahoo Japan Search Ads API Connector
Yahoo! Japan Search Ads is a platform from which users can purchase and manage advertising space on
Yahoo! Japan.
This Yahoo! Japan Search Ads connector is replacing the Yahoo! Japan Sponsored Search connector.
•
Channel: Search
•
Data Stream Type: Ads, Search Keywords, Conversion Tag, Conversion Tag with Keywords.
•
Data Lagging: 1 day
Prerequisites
To connect to Yahoo Japan Ads API, you need a valid Yahoo Japan API Account v12 or higher, API
Password, and Account ID. Contact your Yahoo! Japan Display representative to gain API access.
General Setup
After entering your credentials, select the relevant account you want to retrieve data for.
334

=== PAGE 339 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Extended Properties
•
Get Conversions Data - Select this checkbox to retrieve conversion data, which is mapped to the Data
Stream corresponding to the report you select below. The following fields will be added:
- Total Conversions
- Revenue
- Conversion Tag Name
- Conversion Tag Category
•
Select Report - Select the report you want to pull data from. The following options are available:
- Search Keyword Report - This report retrieves Search Keyword data and will be mapped to the
Search Keywords Data Stream.
- Search Ad Report - This report retrieves Search Ad data and will be mapped to the Ads Data Stream.
- Search Geo Report - This report retrieves Search Geographical data and will be mapped to the Ads
Data Stream.
How to QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Yahoo! Japan Ads platform for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they are aligned
Yandex API Connector
The report retrieved from Yandex is the "Statistics for all Campaigns" report. The report includes data at
the campaign level only.
•
Channel: Search
•
Data Stream Type: Search Keywords
•
Data Lagging: 1 day
Prerequisites
•
User and Password with API permissions. When connecting to Yandex using an API, you’ll be asked to
approve the terms of service. If the connection is still not available, contact your Yandex
representative.
•
You must have at least one advertising campaign in your Yandex account.
•
Yandex is available for the professional web interface only. You can upgrade from the Light Interface
here.
Details
•
If a currency isn’t set in the Yandex account, the data won’t be converted in Marketing Cloud
335

=== PAGE 340 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Intelligence. The values will be the same as in the Yandex platform.
•
The Total values are different for the Ad level and the Search Keyword level. This is the desired
behavior and is the case both in the Yandex platform and the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform.
•
Every API user has points that enable it to perform API actions, like pulling reports. The points spent
on pulling a report are determined by the amount of data included in the report.
•
In the Yandex API, when retrieving the basic report on the campaign level only, the API delivers 2
types of measurements for Clicks, Impressions, and Cost:
- A Search Measurement
- A Context Measurement
•
In the Yandex platform, as well as in Marketing Cloud Intelligence, the Measurement values are a sum
of both types of measurements. However, if you require special settings, these Measurements are
available as unmapped in the mapping screen of the data stream.
General Setup
•
After you’ve logged in with your Yandex credentials you can now select the Agency and/or Advertiser
you’re pulling data for.
•
If you’re an Agency client, you can select an Agency and the Advertisers you wish to retrieve data for.
•
If you're an Advertiser client, your Advertiser appears in both the Agency and Advertiser dropdown
lists.
Extended Properties
•
Get Granular Data - This retrieves reports at the Media Buy level, and includes Search and Conversions
data. To create an identical view in the Yandex platform, choose a specific campaign to drill down,
then choose 'View Statistics'. For Search Measurements navigate to 'Search Queries', for Delivery
Measurements navigate to 'Report Wizard'. Create a report similar to the view in Marketing Cloud
Intelligence.
How to QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the Yandex UI for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
YouTube Ads API Connector in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use YouTube ads to discover videos in various ways: by searching on the YouTube search page, clicking
suggested videos on the watch page, or choosing a video from the homepage feed. You can use YouTube
ads to advertise more effectively to people who are searching for your product or brand. The YouTube
ads connector is a display connector with a data lag of one day.
336

=== PAGE 341 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Additional Information for the YouTube Ads Connector
•
YouTube ads connector pulls data from the Google Ads API.
•
The sliding window for the YouTube Ads API connector is 7.
•
Precision issues could be present in Video Completion measurements resulting in slight discrepancies
in the data.
•
You could experience discrepancies in the video completion percentage (%) Measurement. Marketing
Cloud Intelligence calculates Video Completion % differently than YouTube. YouTube has two
TrueView Video Ad Formats – In-stream and In-discovery (FKA – In-display), and a different calculation
is performed for each format:
- For In-stream: % * impressions / 100
- For In-discovery: % * video views / 100
Marketing Cloud Intelligence calculates both of these formats as In-Stream format.
•
Use an IF formula based on the Media Buy Name to differentiate between the two streams, for
example:
Video Completion 75%:
IF(csv['media_buy_name'] contains 'InDiscovery',
NUMBER(csv['video_completions_75']*csv['video_views']/csv['impressions'],
csv['video_completions_75'])
Create a YouTube Ads Custom Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To track and view YouTube ads, create a YouTube ads data stream.
Create a YouTube Ads Custom Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To track and view YouTube ads, create a YouTube ads data stream.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an API data stream: Admin
To create a YouTube Ads API data stream, you need a valid user & password for a Google Ads account
with API permissions for each account you want to pull data for.
11.. On the Connect and Mix tab, expand Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select the YouTube Ads Custom connector.
44.. In the General section, select the account that you want to pull data for.
55.. To add a new data source authentication, click Add New and enter your Google Ads credentials.
66.. Select the profile you want to pull data for.
77.. Set the time period for the initial data fetch. You can process data up to the past 180 days.
88.. In the Extended Properties section, you can set these additional settings:
aa.. To add dimensions associated with creative breakdown, select Creative Breakdown. The ‘Video
337

=== PAGE 342 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Duration’ measurement is added along with these dimensions:
Ad Name (unmapped)
Ad Id (mapped to ‘Creative Key’)
Video Title (mapped to ‘Creative Name’)
VideoCannelId (mapped to ‘Creative Category’)
Video Id (mapped to ‘Creative Concept’)
Creative Name (mapped to ‘Creative to Billing Placement name’)
bb.. To add dimensions associated with the device breakdown to the data stream, select Get Device
Breakdown.
99.. To change the mapping, click Mapping. Otherwise, you can always access mapping by selecting Map
to Model at the bottom of the Create New Stream page.
1100.. To define advanced settings, at the bottom of the screen, select Advanced Settings.
1111.. Click Create.
1122.. Quality check your data.
aa.. Create a report in the YouTube Ads platform for the required date.
bb.. Process the relevant data stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence filtered to the same date range.
cc.. Create an identical report or pivot table in Marketing Cloud Intelligence with the same date range,
dimensions, and measurements.
dd.. Compare the measurement totals to make sure that they’re aligned.
YouTube Insights API Connector
YouTube is a video sharing service where users can create their own profile, upload videos, watch, like,
and comment on other videos
•
Channel: Social
•
Data Stream Type: Social Objects
•
Data Lagging: 2 days
Prerequisites
•
In order to connect to YouTube Insights API, you need the valid username & password for the Google
account that owns the Channel you want to retrieve data for and the permissions to view YouTube
Analytics reports. The Channel you want to pull data for must contain videos.
•
After you connect to YouTube from the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform, you’re required to
choose a YouTube profile.
•
Channel and Videos are automatically populated depending on the profile you connect to.
338

=== PAGE 343 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
General Setup
•
After entering your credentials, select the relevant Channel you want to retrieve data for.
•
Select the Videos you want to retrieve data for. If you want to retrieve data for all videos in the selected
Channel, leave this field empty.
Extended Properties
•
Location Breakdown - Select one of the available options to add further breakdowns to the data
retrieved by the API, resulting in a higher level of granularity on which the Measurements are sliced.
The following Breakdowns are available when pulling data from the YouTube Insights API, in addition
to the standard data being pulled:
- Country - Select this to pull country data and add the Dimension ‘Country’ to the dataset.
•
Get Video Breakdown - This checkbox is selected by default to retrieve data aggregated at the video
level, clear this checkbox to retrieve data aggregated at the channel level.
Known Issues
•
It's not possible to pull data for a YouTube Channel that the selected credentials don’t own (that is, it’s
insufficient to simply have manager access + YouTube Analytics access to a channel)
•
If videos don't have enough traffic under a certain breakdown, such as country, they aren't pulled.
How to QA Your Data
•
Create the desired report in the YouTube platform for the required date range.
•
Next, process the relevant Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence for the same date range.
•
In Extended Properties, make sure you select the same report as the one you created on YouTube.
Create a Report/Table Widget/Pivot Table within Marketing Cloud Intelligence containing the exact
same Dimensions and Measurements for the same report and date range.
•
Compare the Measurement Totals and make sure they’re aligned.
YouTube Public (Competitive) API Connector
YouTube Public (Competitive)
•
Channel: Social, Competitive
•
Data Stream Type: Social Objects
•
Data Lagging: 2 days
Prerequisites
Valid YouTube Username and Password
339

=== PAGE 344 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Details
•
Not all fields retrieved via the YouTube Public API are automatically mapped. If you wish to include a
certain field that's not mapped by default, use Manual Mapping.
•
Since the YouTube Public API retrieves public data such as Channel Likes, Channel Views, Video Views
etc., validating your data should be done by comparing it to those Measurements’ values for the
specific element - IE: Channel, Video, and so on - you’re tracking on the YouTube platform.
•
All the Measurements in the YouTube Public API are aggregated as LIFETIME Since this Connector only
retrieves data for the date on which the retrieval takes place, it’s impossible to reprocess historical data
in YouTube Public Data Streams.
Extended Properties
•
Channels: Enter the Channel Name you want to track. You can specify up to five channels. To retrieve
Channel IDs, select Channel IDs and then enter the required IDs. Separate each value with a comma.
Known Issues
•
As the YouTube Public API can only retrieve up to 256 Videos at once, only the 256 most recent Videos
are retrieved every time a YouTube Public API Data Stream runs. This limitation is per Data Stream, so
if you wish to retrieve Channels containing many Videos, choose to pull one Channel per Data Stream.
YouTube Reports API Connector
YouTube Reports
•
Data Lagging: 1 day
Prerequisites
•
YouTube username and password
•
Similar to YouTube Insights, the user should be a channel owner.
Details
•
To validate your data compare it to the relevant view in the YouTube Analytics platform. When in the
YouTube analytics platform, to the left, under the 'Analytics' section, there are three tabs:
- Traffic Sources
- Demographics
- Devices
•
In the Devices tab, there are 2 views: 'Devices' 'Operating Systems'
- 'Devices'
- 'Operating Systems'
•
Select the view that fits the report you’re validating.
340

=== PAGE 345 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
The Watch Time measurement is aggregated and displayed in minutes format.
How to set up YouTube Reports
11.. Choose the desired report from the list:
••
Traffic Sources - Includes viewing statistics based on the manner in which viewers reached your
video content.
••
Device and Operating System - Includes viewing statistics based on viewers' operating systems and
device types.
••
Viewer Demographics (Age + Gender) - Includes viewing statistics based on viewers' age group and
gender.
••
Playback Locations - Provides statistics related to the type of page or application where video
playbacks occurred.
••
User Activity - Provides user activity statistics related to a channel and its videos.
••
User Activity By Province - Provides user activity statistics for U.S. states and the District of Columbia.
••
Traffic Sources By Video - Includes viewing statistics based on the manner in which viewers reached
your video content per video.
••
Viewer Demographics By Video - Includes viewing statistics based on viewers' age group and gender
per video.
••
Device Type And Operating System By Video - Includes viewing statistics based on viewers'
operating systems and device types per video.
••
Playback Locations By Video - Provides statistics related to the type of page or application where
video playbacks occurred per video.
22.. Select the Report Context - Video or Playlist. The report context determines the scope of the data. For
instance, 'Playlist' will return data relevant to views made in the context of a playlist.
33.. Select the Data Stream Type - The Traffic Sources report can be mapped using the Social Element
Traffic Sources Data Stream Type. The Viewer Demographics and Device and OS reports include many
to many entities, it’s advised that you map them using the Generic Data Stream Type.
Technical Vendors in Intelligence
Intelligence supports these technical vendors:
Technical Vendors
VENDOR DETAILS
Amazon Web Services
Port - 5439
Redshift
jdbc:postgresql://HOST:PORT/
DATABASE?user=USER&password=PASSWORD
341

=== PAGE 346 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
VENDOR DETAILS
Amazon Web Services
S3 Bucket Name – The highest hierarchy in S3
S3
Directory – The folder, inside the bucket, from which you want to retrieve
files.
ATARA
Host/Port - Enter host, port should be 22
User - enter username and password
Use Private Key Authentication - If you are using private key authentication,
enter it here.
Directory - Enter the relevant directory with the location of the file.
Box
Credentials - Add your Box.com credentials
Directory - Enter the relevant directory with the location of the file. Note that
when using the Box.com the directory should include the folders' ID's and
not the folder names. Folder ID's can be retrieved from the URL in the
provider's platform.
Cloudera IMPALA jdbc:hive2://HOST:PORT/SCHEMA
Dropbox
Credentials - Add your Dropbox credentials
Directory - Enter the relevant directory with the location of the file.
Team Space - Select to retrieve files from team space
ftp:
Host/Port
Connection Mode – Set according to your settings
Credentials (User/Pass) - Enter your username and password
Directory – The folder in which the relevant file is located
Security Mode – Set according to your settings
Google Big Query To connect to Google Big Query, you must have the default full owner
access to the whole project.
Google Drive
Credentials - Add your Google credentials
Directory - Enter the relevant directory with the location of the file.
342

=== PAGE 347 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
VENDOR DETAILS
Google Storage
Credentials - Add your credentials (identical to the Google Big Query
credentials)
Bucket Name The highest hierarchy in Google Storage
Directory - The file location.
GreenPlum
Port 5432
jdbc:postgresql://HOST:PORT/
DATABASE?user=USER&password=PASSWORD
Hadoop HDFS
Host/Port - Enter both host and port
HDFS User - Enter username only, no password required.
HDFS Directory
Hive jdbc:hive2://HOST:PORT/SCHEMA?user=USER&password=PASSWORD
HP VERTICA
Port - 5433
jdbc:vertica://HOST:PORT/DATABASE?user=USER&password=PASSWORD
http://
File Extension – In case the URL does not lead to a specific file, enter the file
extension so that the system will know how to process the file.
Authentication Type – None means there is no need for authentication.
Basic authentication type will require you to enter user and password.
Headers -
POST Body (Optional) – You can add further information to the request
Microsoft Azure Blob
Connection String - Insert the connection details which can be found in the
Storage
'Access Keys' tab. For example:
DefaultEndpointsProtocol=https;AccountName=ACCOUNT_NAME;
AccountKey=ACCOUNT_KEY;EndpointSuffix=core.windows.net
Container - Enter the relevant container where your blobs (files) can be
found
343

=== PAGE 348 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
VENDOR DETAILS
Microsoft SQL Server
Port - 1433
jdbc:sqlserver://HOST:PORT;database=DATABASE;user=USER;password=PAS
SWORD
MongoDB
mongodb://USER:PASSWORD@HOST:PORT/DATABASE.COLLECTION
Mongo DB expects to receive a basic JSON file, without an array of nested
values. If the JSON file you upload is structured differently than the default
structure, you may need to make changes in the transformers to ensure MCI
can digest the file properly.
OneDrive for Business
Credentials - Add your credentials.
Directory - Enter the relevant directory with the location of the file. For
example, if the path is Files > Shared > Mapping Tables, use: /Shared/
Mapping Tables
Note: we do not support a connection in the OneDrive connector with a
folder used for integration with other Microsoft services - for example
SharePoint. We do however support connections with Shared folders - so if
possible, move the files to a shared folder, enabling Datorama to retrieve
them with the proper path.
OneDrive Personal
Credentials - Add your credentials.
Directory - Enter the relevant directory with the location of the file. For
example, if the path is Files > Shared > Mapping Tables, use: /Shared/
Mapping Tables
To link your OneDrive account to SharePoint, click Use Sharepoint and
entering your SharePoint site name.
Microsoft Graph API permissions must be enabled in your SharePoint
account.
Note: We support connections with Shared folders - so if possible, move the
files to a shared folder, enabling Marketing Cloud Intelligence to retrieve
them with the proper path.
Oracle
Port - 1521
jdbc:oracle:thin:USER/PASSWORD@HOST:PORT:SID
344

=== PAGE 349 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
VENDOR DETAILS
Presto jdbc:presto://HOST:PORT/DATABASE
rss:
File Extension – In case the URL does not lead to a specific file, enter the file
extension so that the system will know how to process the file.
Authentication Type – None means there is no need for authentication.
Basic authentication type will require you to enter user and password.
Headers
POST Body (Optional) – You can add further information to the request, for
example, parameters
SAP HANA
port - 30015
jdbc:sap://HOST:PORT/DATABASE?user=USER&password=PASSWORD
SmartSheet
Credentials: Add your SmartSheet Credentials
Folder/Workspace ID: Enter either the Folder ID or the Workspace ID.
Leaving this box empty will retrieve data from the 'Sheets' root folder
SnowFlake
Connection String:
jdbc:snowflake://ACCOUNT_NAME.snowflakecomputing.com/?wa
rehouse=WAREHOUSE
&db=DATABASE&schema=SCHEMA&role=USER_ROLE
Credentials: Enter your User Name and Password
Treasure Data jdbc:presto://HOST:PORT/DATABASE
Treasure Data Tank jdbc:presto://HOST:PORT/DATABASE
Creating Data Streams with LiteConnect in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
With LiteConnect, you can upload a file into Marketing Cloud Intelligence as is and visualize the data
automatically. You don’t need to consider the predefined structure and constraints of the data model or
map fields.
Use LiteConnect when you have a single data source and no harmonization is required. If you have
multiple data sources that must be harmonized, use other upload methods, such as TotalConnect or API
Connectors.
345

=== PAGE 350 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
When uploading data, be aware of the data limits:
•
Direct upload: 40 MB / 150 million rows (subsequent)
• Email: 30 МB / 150 million rows (subsequent)
•
Retrieval: 500 GB / 150 million rows (subsequent)
Create a Data Stream with LiteConnect in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a LiteConnect data stream to upload a single data source as is without any manipulations. You
can upload any flat file.
Harmonizing LiteConnect with Other Data Sources
You can harmonize or integrate LiteConnect data streams with other data streams using Vlookup, data
fusion, or calculated dimensions. However, LiteConnect data streams are naturally harmonized at the
date level, so you can consolidate measurements by date.
See Also
Creating Data Streams with TotalConnect in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Creating Data Streams with API Connectors in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a Data Stream with LiteConnect in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a LiteConnect data stream to upload a single data source as is without any manipulations. You
can upload any flat file.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a LiteConnect data stream: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams, and then Data Streams List.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Click LiteConnect.
44.. To upload a file, drag it to the center of the page. Here’s an example of an uploaded file.
55.. If you need to transform the uploaded file, go to the Advanced tab and apply a file transformer. See
Apply File Transformers.
66.. It’s recommended you verify that the data loaded correctly before creating the data stream.
aa.. To edit the table name, double-click it. Keep the table name short and descriptive. The table name
appears when viewing measurements and dimensions, and when creating widgets.
bb.. Verify that the date is correct. There are two date columns.
cc.. Verify that the dimensions and measurements are identified correctly. If a column isn’t identified
correctly, click the cube icon to the right of the field and change the selection.
dd.. To change a column name, click it and edit.
ee.. To change a formula, click the dropdown next to the column name and select Edit Formula.
ff.. To apply advanced settings to the LiteConnect data stream, at the bottom of the Data Stream page,
click Advanced. For more information, see Advanced Settings in Data Streams.
346

=== PAGE 351 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
77.. If you’re satisfied with the results, click Save and create the data stream. A new collection is created.
88.. To view the new collection, click Show Me or go to the Visualize tab. All LiteConnect collections
appear under LiteConnect Previews.
Add Fields to a LiteConnect Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can add fields that don’t exist in the source data. Define the new fields by either applying code
that is based on the existing columns or creating a new value.
Date Values in LiteConnect Data Streams
A LiteConnect data stream has two date columns. The date changes according to the source data.
Add Fields to a LiteConnect Data Stream in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can add fields that don’t exist in the source data. Define the new fields by either applying code that is
based on the existing columns or creating a new value.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To add fields to a LiteConnect data stream: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams, and then Data Streams List.
22.. Select a LiteConnect data stream.
33.. To add a column, click Add Field.
44.. Select the type of field: dimension or measurement. The Formula Editor appears.
aa.. Enter a name. (1)
bb.. Enter the formula. You can type your formula manually or select one from the available functions or
fields.(2)
cc.. Functions/Fields — Select a function or field from the list. These types are available (3).
••
Functions – A list of available functions that can be implemented on dimensions, and
measurements.
••
Input – A list of all fields from the source file that were uploaded to the data stream.
••
Datorama – (Marketing Cloud Intelligence) A list of available data fields in the "transformed" file
currently being manipulated by a data stream. The values are affected by formula manipulation
(like you see in the data preview).
dd.. Additional Options – These options are also available (4)
••
Auto Format Code – Formats your code into the standard structure.
Before Auto Format:
After Auto Format
••
Comment Out — Allows you to mark a comment in the code for the formula. This code is
processed, even if it has dimensions or measurements.
••
Ucomment — Allows you to remove the comment from the code.
347

=== PAGE 352 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
••
Validate Syntax — Ensures that your syntax is free of errors.
••
Evaluate — Runs the code on manually entered values.
55.. Save your work.
Date Values in LiteConnect Data Streams
A LiteConnect data stream has two date columns. The date changes according to the source data.
The DAY column (1) contains the date value as interpreted by Marketing Cloud Intelligence. You can’t
edit this column. The DATE column (2) is the actual date column that comes from the source file.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence automatically assigns the DAY value to the first date column that it finds in
the source file.
If the source file has more than one date column, select a different date to go by instead of the one that
Marketing Cloud Intelligence selected.
If the uploaded source file doesn’t have a date column but has measurements, the Yesterday day value is
automatically assigned. A measurement must have a date.
If the uploaded file contains only dimensions, the day value is empty because it isn’t required.
Harmonizing LiteConnect with Other Data Sources
You can harmonize or integrate LiteConnect data streams with other data streams using Vlookup, data
fusion, or calculated dimensions. However, LiteConnect data streams are naturally harmonized at the
date level, so you can consolidate measurements by date.
Vlookup
With Vlookup, you can identify like values across data streams to populate one data stream with data
from another. For example, a pizza store wants to cross-match its delivery data from Facebook with
weather data to see if there’s a correlation. They can run the Vlookup command from the Facebook data
stream to find similar dates in the LiteConnect weather data. They can then pull the weather conditions
for matching date values. In the mapping of the API data stream, they can use the Strategy entity to
house this formula:
VLOOKUP(csv['Facebook Date], [‘Gsom Date’], [‘conditions’],true,false,{'Gsom
Weather'})
The pizza store created a widget to display the data.
348

=== PAGE 353 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can also source Vlookup in LiteConnect. For example, you can include the Vlookup command in a
formula in a LiteConnect data stream header to pull data from another data stream.
Data Fusion
Data fusion creates a link between two dimensions from different data stream types based on identical
values. You can unify identical campaign values and measurements from different data streams in a
single widget. Data fusion is easier to set up than Vlookup. It’s more appropriate for unifying
measurements from different data streams rather than pulling dimension values, which is done using
Vlookup.
For example, you have a LiteConnect data stream with survey data, and you want to match identical
values in a Facebook API data stream. You can then create a widget with the survey figures from
LiteConnect and the delivery figures from Facebook.
Calculated Dimensions
Use calculated dimensions for multiple data source unification. For example, let’s use the Vlookup
weather data and Facebook delivery data. If a calculated dimension is conditioned on the presence of W
or T in either dimension and assigns a new value accordingly, one value is created that is true for both
sources and unifies them.
Dimension from weather data:
Dimension from Facebook delivery data:
Here’s an example of a calculated dimension based on this principle:
if([EMSN_ATTRIBUTES] contains 'W' && [EMSN_] contains 'T')
{
return 'WT Activity';
}
else
{
if([Campaign_Name] contains 'W' && [Campaign_Name] contains 'T')
{
return 'WT Activity';
}
else
349

=== PAGE 354 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
{
return 'W Activity';
}
}
When viewing this calculated dimension in a widget, you can see metrics for either source per calculated
dimension.
Create Data Streams with DirectConnect
DirectConnect is a premium feature that allows you to retrieve data directly from an external database,
without having to store the data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence’s database. DirectConnect is used in
cases where you have data sensitivity issues, or you want to display and interact with your data from an
external source instead.
Whenever an instance relating to this source is initiated, data in DirectConnect is queried and retrieved
live from the external database. For example, when loading a widget that uses at least one DirectConnect
dimension or measurement, the data is visible and accessible for the duration of that instance only.
Unlike TotalConnect or LiteConnect connections, no data is retrieved with DirectConnect, therefore no
rows are added. Although data isn’t stored in Marketing Cloud Intelligence’s database, you can still use
data from DirectConnect in calculations and in data classifications. These external databases are
supported in DirectConnect:
•
PostgreSQL
•
Redshift
•
Vertica
•
Presto
•
AWS
•
Athena
•
MySQL
•
SQL
•
Server Snowflake
Create a Data Stream with DirectConnect
Use DirectConnect to create a data stream and retrieve data directly from an external database. You
can either configure a database, or connect to a database manually with a user and password. After
connecting to the database and testing the connection, you can create a query to determine how data
from the database is represented in Marketing Cloud Intelligence. Make sure the scope of the query is
as close to the consumption requirements as possible for faster processing and performance.
Connection and Performance Optimization in DirectConnect Data Streams
Setting up a DirectConnect data stream establishes a real-time connection to your database. Each
time an entity that uses dimensions or measurements sourced from DirectConnect is loaded, your
database is queried in real time. A real-time connection can potentially result in many calls being
350

=== PAGE 355 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
made to your database concurrently, leading to slower performance and exceeding rate limits.
Create a Data Stream with DirectConnect
Use DirectConnect to create a data stream and retrieve data directly from an external database. You can
either configure a database, or connect to a database manually with a user and password. After
connecting to the database and testing the connection, you can create a query to determine how data
from the database is represented in Marketing Cloud Intelligence. Make sure the scope of the query is as
close to the consumption requirements as possible for faster processing and performance.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a DirectConnect data stream: Admin
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams and then Data Streams List.
22.. Click Create New.
33.. Click DirectConnect.
44.. Configure your database connection as required, or manually enter the connection string using a
username and password.
55.. To verify the connection works, click Test Connection.
66.. To create a query for the database, click Next. This query determines how your DirectConnect data is
represented in Marketing Cloud Intelligence. For example, enter * from user_visits
77.. After the query is created, click Validate.
88.. To move onto the data verification mode, click Review.
99.. In the Configure tab, enter a name for the table. Make sure the table name is short, yet descriptive.
1100.. In the Data Type section, make sure that the dimensions and measurements were identified correctly.
1111.. To validate a dimension or measurement, hover over a category or an individual column name. The
corresponding field is highlighted in the table.
1122.. To redefine a column as a dimension or measurement, click the icon to the right of the field name. In
the Connect tab, edit the connection string.
1133.. To save each query result for a defined cache duration, set the Caching Duration time and units. Use
this option if you want to improve performance. For more information, see Real-time Connection and
Performance in DirectConnect Data Streams
1144.. Click Create.
See Also
Connection and Performance Optimization in DirectConnect Data Streams
Connection and Performance Optimization in DirectConnect Data Streams
Setting up a DirectConnect data stream establishes a real-time connection to your database. Each time
an entity that uses dimensions or measurements sourced from DirectConnect is loaded, your database is
queried in real time. A real-time connection can potentially result in many calls being made to your
351

=== PAGE 356 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
database concurrently, leading to slower performance and exceeding rate limits.
Use the data stream’s cache functionality to improve performance and temporarily save each query
result for the defined cache duration. Whenever you load the same entity, the data is retrieved from the
cache, rather than making an additional call to the external database.
Salesforce recommends setting the cache duration based on how frequently your database is updated.
For example, set the cache duration to 20 minutes if the database updates every 20 minutes. Setting to
any amount of time less than 20 minutes, can result in no data retrieval.
Pull Data 360 Data into Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Data 360 unifies your data from multiple sources so that you can build a comprehensive view of your
customer. Pull in a small amount of data with TotalConnect or try the Granular Data Center connector for
larger amounts. You can also install the Data Cloud app to get predefined insights.
Note Not supported in Government Cloud. See Data 360 edition availability
Set Up Access to Pull Data 360 Data
Before you can pull in data from Data 360 into Marketing Cloud Intelligence, authenticate access
between the apps.
Use TotalConnect to Pull Data 360 Data into Intelligence
If you have Data 360 data and you want to bring it into Marketing Cloud Intelligence, you can use the
TotalConnect connector. With this connector you can fetch up to 50,000 rows per query and run up to
1,000 queries per day. After you connect your data, a data stream is created and you can then get
insights on your data.
Use the Granular Data Center to Pull Data 360 Data into Intelligence
To analyze a lot of data, use the Granular Data Center connector to pull in your data. You can query up
to 15 million rows at one time.
Set Up Access to Pull Data 360 Data
Before you can pull in data from Data 360 into Marketing Cloud Intelligence, authenticate access
between the apps.
If you’ve already installed the Data 360 connector, uninstall it before setting up access.
If you encounter issues or have questions, contact Salesforce Customer Support.
11.. Log in to Data 360 as an admin user.
22.. Select Setup, and then click OAuth custom scopes.
33.. Create a custom scope, and name it cdpquery.
See Create an OAuth Custom Scope.
352

=== PAGE 357 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
44.. Create another custom scope, and name it cdpprofile.
55.. In your web browser, open a new tab and paste the following link and run it.
We recommend using Chrome for this flow.
https://login.salesforce.com/services/oauth2/
authorize?response_type=token&client_id=3MVG9I9urWjeUW07NtG9.RZ69S667zjmUZ9rVwRmD5phDL6_IqWEKefBKjIqyehX2cccREDTaF3DqkuxsH8pp&redirect_uri=http://localhost
66.. Log in if prompted, and then click Allow.
Ignore the message notifying you that the site can’t be reached.
77.. Close the tab, and open the Salesforce Setup page.
88.. Search for OAuth and OpenID Connect Settings.
99.. Turn on the following settings.
••
Allow OAuth Username-Password Flows
••
Allow OAuth User-Agent Flows
••
Allow Authorization Code and Credentials Flows
1100.. Search for and open Connected Apps OAuth Usage.
The Datorama connected app opens. Datorama is now called Marketing Cloud Intelligence, but in this
flow the app appears as Datorama.
1111.. To install the app, click Install and follow the guided steps.
Complete the installation before continuing. If the installation fails, a previously connected Datorama
app might exist in your org. To fix this, delete the existing connected app and repeat the authorization
and installation steps.
1122.. Return to the Connected Apps OAuth Usage page, click Edit Policies, and change IP Relaxation to
Relax IP Restrictions.
1133.. Click Manage OAuth Custom Scope and ensure that both cdpprofile and cdpquery are selected.
1144.. Click Save.
You can now create a data stream with Data 360 using either TotalConnect or the Marketing Cloud
Customer Data connector.
Use TotalConnect to Pull Data 360 Data into Intelligence
If you have Data 360 data and you want to bring it into Marketing Cloud Intelligence, you can use the
TotalConnect connector. With this connector you can fetch up to 50,000 rows per query and run up to
353

=== PAGE 358 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
1,000 queries per day. After you connect your data, a data stream is created and you can then get
insights on your data.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a TotalConnect data stream: Admin
Note You must first set up access from Data 360 to Marketing Cloud Intelligence before you can
connect your data. For more information, see Set Up Access to Pull Data 360 Data
Note Make sure you have at least one data stream defined in Data 360 before connecting the two
apps.
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams, and then select Data Streams List.
22.. Click Create New.
33.. In the Technical Vendor section, select Salesforce Data Cloud.
44.. Enter your Data 360 username and password. You may also be prompted for a token, based on the
security settings of your organization.
55.. Write your SQL query.
For example, select * from ssot__Individual__dlm limit 2 queries two rows of all the
columns in your data model object. Limiting the query to two rows gives quick results.
66.. To view a summary of your query result, click Evaluate.
77.. To confirm your credentials and verify your data, click Validate.
88.. Click Next and preview your data. If you’re satisfied with the preview, click Next.
99.. To create the data stream, click Create.
If you have mapping errors, a validation screen appears. To fix the errors, click Show Issues. You can
also click Advanced. After you’ve resolved the mapping issues, click Create again.
You can now analyze your Data 360 data.
See Also
Use the Granular Data Center to Pull Data 360 Data into Intelligence
Use the Granular Data Center to Pull Data 360 Data into Intelligence
To analyze a lot of data, use the Granular Data Center connector to pull in your data. You can query up to
15 million rows at one time.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a data stream in Data 360: Data Cloud Architect
354

=== PAGE 359 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
When querying large amounts of data, you might not receive all the results on the same day. For
instance, ingesting 100 million rows requires running 2,000 queries, takes 2 days. For Query API and
Insights API Corporate and Enterprise editions, you can run up 1,000 daily queries. However, due to Data
360 functionality, only 50,000 rows can be fetched per query.
You must have the Granular Data Center add-on. For more information, contact your Marketing Cloud
Intelligence representative.
Note You must first set up access from Data 360 to Marketing Cloud Intelligence before you can
connect your data. For more information, see Set Up Access to Pull Data 360 Data
Note Make sure you have at least one data stream defined in Data 360 before connecting Marketing
Cloud Intelligence.
11.. On the Connect and Mix tab, under the Granular Data Center, select Granular Data Center Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Click Technical Vendor, and select Salesforce Data Cloud.
44.. Select Databases as the delivery method.
55.. Enter your Data 360 username and password.
66.. Write your SQL query.
For example, select * from ssot__Individual__dlm limit 2 queries two rows of all the
columns in your data model object. Limiting the query to two rows gives quick results.
77.. To view a summary of your query result, click Evaluate.
88.. To confirm your credentials and verify your data, click Validate.
99.. Specify how often to run the query.
1100.. Save the query.
1111.. After the data is loaded, click Create.
A new data stream is created and you can now analyze your Data 360 data.
See Also
Enable the Granular Data Center in a Workspace
Use TotalConnect to Pull Data 360 Data into Intelligence
Mapping Your Source Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Mapping connects the source fields in your uploaded file to the corresponding Marketing Cloud
Intelligence fields. Intelligence uses machine learning algorithms to map your data. The mapping process
is similar regardless of which method you use to upload your data, with some minor differences. If you’re
using an API connector to upload your data, Marketing Cloud Intelligence automatically maps the fields
for you, but you can make changes to the mapping. If you’re using TotalConnect, Intelligence identifies
the most suitable data stream type according to your data and offers an initial mapping suggestion.
View How Your Data Is Mapped in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
355

=== PAGE 360 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
On the mapping page, you can see all the fields that were mapped and unmapped in your data
stream.
Map a Source Field to a Marketing Cloud Intelligence Field
Map source fields to Marketing Cloud Intelligence fields to connect the data and create a match
between your source data and Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
Change the Data Stream Type
All data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence is categorized using data steam types. A data stream type is
assigned automatically when data is uploaded. For example, if the data includes advertising data, such
as clicks, impressions, and campaigns, Marketing Cloud Intelligence applies the Ads data stream type.
You can change the data stream type if it isn’t correct, or use a different type.
Customize a Field
You can customize an existing data model field.
Use the Formula Editor to Map
You can apply formulas directly to your field mappings to perform complex manipulations of your
data. The formulas are intuitive and use a similar syntax found in Excel. For more complex
manipulations, you can also use MVEL, a Java-based expression language. You apply formulas during
the mapping stage when creating data streams.
Mapping Actions
There are some handy actions you can apply when mapping. Some appear in the toolbar, while others
can be found in the More Actions dropdown list.
Reach Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Reach represents the number of unique visitors exposed to your content over a specified time period.
Reach differs from impressions, which includes multiple views by the same visitor.
Mapping Validations
TotalConnect and API data streams offer enhanced mapping validations during the Map to Model
stage of data ingestion. The mapping validations allow you to check if there are errors or irregularities
with your mapping. They also provide details on how you can rectify errors.
Mapping a File With No Date Column
To map a file with measurement data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence Platform, the file must contain a
date column. The platform automatically identifies and pulls date information. If a date isn’t included
the file can’t be uploaded.
Mapping Formulas
Use the mapping formula editor to apply formulas directly in your mapping fields. Using functions in
your mapping formulas, such as text and date functions, allows you to perform more complex
manipulations to your data.
Date Format Syntax
When setting up date formats in TotalConnect, you may need to convert textual data to dates using
formulas. The PARSEDATE function can be used for the conversion. The function receives text
containing the date information, and an expression that specifies how to construct the date using the
text.
Formula Operators
A formula is a mathematical relationship or rule expressed in symbols. With Marketing Cloud
356

=== PAGE 361 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Intelligence, you can use formulas to create calculated measurements and dimensions when mapping
your data. Operators specify the type of calculation to perform on the terms in a formula—such as
addition, subtraction, multiplication, or division.
Mapping Functions in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Functions are used when creating mapping formulas, allowing you to perform complex manipulations
to your data. These functions are available in Marketing Cloud Intelligence and are divided into
different groups to easily search for the function you’re looking for.
Control Flow Operators
Marketing Cloud Intelligence supports an assortment of control flow operators, so you can perform
advanced scripting operations. Aside from the custom functions that are supported in the formula
editor, you can write formulas based in C and Java Script syntax to make more complex decisions.
Mapping Geolocation Dimensions in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Geolocation refers to the geographical location of an internet-connected device. Found from the user's
IP address, geolocation includes information about the device user's location, such as country, region,
and city. After you map geolocation, you can create a Map widget so that you can see performance
broken down by region.
View How Your Data Is Mapped in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
On the mapping page, you can see all the fields that were mapped and unmapped in your data stream.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To map source fields to Marketing Cloud Admin
Intelligence fields:
11.. Create a data stream or edit an existing one.
22.. At the bottom of the Data Stream page, click Map to Model.
The Mapping page shows the source fields in the external data (1) and the Marketing Cloud Intelligence
data model fields available for mapping (2). These fields are based on the data stream type, which is
assigned automatically after you upload your data. The data steam type determines which dimensions
and measurements are available for mapping. You can see all the connections made between the
external source and an Intelligence field (3). New fields only display in TotalConnect data streams.
•
Fields in orange represent new fields that were found when your data stream was processed.
•
To view a field’s original name and the date that it was added, hover over the name. For example, if the
field was added 3 weeks ago, you can reprocess data only for the past 3 weeks.
•
If you’re working with an API data stream connected to more than one data stream type, toggle
between the mapping to view or modify it.
357

=== PAGE 362 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Map a Source Field to a Marketing Cloud Intelligence Field
Map source fields to Marketing Cloud Intelligence fields to connect the data and create a match between
your source data and Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To map source fields to Marketing Cloud Admin
Intelligence fields:
11.. Navigate to the Connect & Mix tab.
22.. Expand Data Streams, and then expand Data Streams List.
33.. Create a data stream or edit an existing one.
44.. At the bottom of the Data Stream page, click Map to Model.
55.. To see which fields haven’t been mapped, click Unmapped.
66.. Click an unmapped field, and then click the Marketing Cloud Intelligence field that you want to map it
to.
77.. Click Apply.
88.. To unmap a field, click Mapped, hover over the mapped field, and then click Unmap. After the field is
unmapped, it appears in the External Data list as unmapped.
Change the Data Stream Type
All data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence is categorized using data steam types. A data stream type is
assigned automatically when data is uploaded. For example, if the data includes advertising data, such as
clicks, impressions, and campaigns, Marketing Cloud Intelligence applies the Ads data stream type. You
can change the data stream type if it isn’t correct, or use a different type.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To change the data stream type: Admin
11.. Navigate to the Connect & Mix tab.
22.. Expand Data Streams, and then expand Data Streams List.
33.. Create a data stream or edit an existing one.
44.. At the bottom of the Data Stream page, click Map to Model.
55.. On the right side, click Switch Data Stream Type. A list of the Marketing Cloud Intelligence supported
data stream types appears.
66.. To view available entities and relationships between them, click a data stream type. You can also see a
match score between your data source fields and the Marketing Cloud Intelligence fields that are
358

=== PAGE 363 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
available in the data stream type. (This option isn’t available for most API data streams.)
Customize a Field
You can customize an existing data model field.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To customize a field: Admin
11.. Navigate to the Connect & Mix tab.
22.. Expand Data Streams, and then expand Data Streams List.
33.. Create a data stream or edit an existing one.
44.. At the bottom of the Data Stream page, click Map to Model.
55.. Select a field.
To change the properties, click Model Field Properties (1). To add or edit a formula, click Edit (2). To
use more advanced functions, click Formula Editor (3).
If you customize a key field and it's already mapped, you may still see the old key in the platform. To
delete the old key, use one of these methods:
••
If the data comes from a data-stream level data stream (Ads, Conversion Tag, and so on) you must
recreate the data stream, or delete the key via the Dimension Explorer. For more information, see
Re-run and Recreate Data Streams or Use the Dimension Explorer to Explore and Fix Data Issues.
••
If the data comes from a workspace-level data stream (CRM, ecommerce, and so on) the only way
to delete the key is via the Dimension Explorer. For more information, see Use the Dimension
Explorer to Explore and Fix Data Issues.
Use the Formula Editor to Map
You can apply formulas directly to your field mappings to perform complex manipulations of your data.
The formulas are intuitive and use a similar syntax found in Excel. For more complex manipulations, you
can also use MVEL, a Java-based expression language. You apply formulas during the mapping stage
when creating data streams.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To map source fields to Marketing Cloud Admin
Intelligence fields
359

=== PAGE 364 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
11.. Navigate to the Connect & Mix tab.
22.. Expand Data Streams, and then expand Data Streams List.
33.. Create a data stream or edit an existing one.
44.. At the bottom of the Data Stream page, click Map to Model.
The Formula Editor contains these areas:
11.. Edit Area — Enter the formula. You can type your formula manually or select one from the available
functions or fields.
22.. Functions/Fields — Select a function or field from the list. These types are available:
••
Functions – A list of available functions that can be implemented on dimensions, measurements,
native values, and variables.
••
External fields – A list of all fields from the source file that were uploaded to the data stream.
••
Data model fields – A list of all fields available in the data stream type of the chosen data stream,
listed with their system native name. These fields can be used with dimensions or measurements
that already have a formula in the mapping. A value is given after the formula is processed instead
of the native CSV value from the original file. This value enhances ETL performance because it
doesn’t require more processing.
Note Only mapped fields can be used as Marketing Cloud Intelligence fields.
The practical difference between the two types of fields in the mapping stage is:
••
Csv[…] =pre-formula — Refers to the external fields and appears in this format. The value is
taken as it exists in the source file before any formula manipulations were performed.
••
Dat[…] = post-formula — Refers to the Marketing Cloud Intelligence field and appears in this
format. This field takes the value after the formula is applied. For example, if you map Media Buy
Name, you can use dat[media_buy_name] in another field formula without writing or evaluating
it again.
33.. Additional Options – These options are also available:
••
Auto Format Code – Formats your code into the standard structure.
Before Auto Format:
360

=== PAGE 365 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
After Auto Format
••
Comment Out — Allows you to mark a comment in the code for the formula. This code is processed,
even if it has dimensions or measurements.
••
Ucomment — Allows you to remove the comment from the code.
••
Validate Syntax — Ensures that your syntax is free of errors.
••
Evaluate — Runs the code on manually entered values.
Note
••
Function syntax and the values inserted in the formula are case-sensitive.
••
VLOOKUP functions aren’t supported.
Mapping Actions
There are some handy actions you can apply when mapping. Some appear in the toolbar, while others
can be found in the More Actions dropdown list.
•
Unmap all fields — Unmap all your mapped fields.
•
Rename all model fields — Change the display name of all the data model fields to their external
names.
•
Download mapping summary — Download a summary of all the mapped fields to an Excel file.
•
Preview — Preview how your mapped data looks after it’s done.
Note
- Preview isn’t available for API data streams.
- The preview shows the top 100 rows of data.
- Any changes made to the mapping are automatically applied to the preview after the system
validates that the mapping is correct. If any actions are made to the preview table (sort, filter,
group, and so on), the data in the table isn’t refreshed,
•
Validate — Check if all of your mapped fields are working as expected. Here you can see if there are
any errors or irregularities with the way your mapping is set up.
Note The system automatically validates your mapping after you save mapping changes.
Reach Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Reach represents the number of unique visitors exposed to your content over a specified time period.
Reach differs from impressions, which includes multiple views by the same visitor.
You can't sum Reach data. For example, when analyzing reach in 7-day increments, a user can view your
content twice in one week and twice the following week. Each week, the user is counted as a single user,
but you can’t add them up because the sum no longer conveys a unique user for the specified time
period. Total Reach isn’t a sum of reach calculated in shorter increments. Instead, total reach represents
361

=== PAGE 366 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
the reach of a page or an individual piece of content in a specific time-frame that includes various types
of reach. Cookie- level data is not available when ingesting specific data into Intelligence. To ensure that
your report displays the correct data, aggregate your data at the granularity that you want the report to
reflect.
Reporting Reach at Multiple Entity Levels
To see reach at multiple levels or different frequencies in Intelligence for example, daily, weekly, or
monthly, you create multiple APIs or TotalConnect data streams, differing the entity dimensions or
date range per data stream.
Processing Historical Data for Reach Data Streams
When manually processing data streams, Marketing Cloud Intelligence doesn’t consider the sliding
window. Data needs to be processed in one month increments to ensure integrity of reach data is not
compromised. You have to be conscious of how your regular retrieval is set up - to ensure that the
newly loaded historical data and what you will regularly receive in the data stream are even
comparable.
Field Mapping for Reach Data Streams
It’s important to map the day and reach fields correctly in a reach data stream. The mapping can vary
depending on the granularity that you’re setting up. Only map the required fields.
Reporting Reach at Multiple Entity Levels
To see reach at multiple levels or different frequencies in Intelligence for example, daily, weekly, or
monthly, you create multiple APIs or TotalConnect data streams, differing the entity dimensions or date
range per data stream.
To use one reach value across entities, you can create a calculated dimension using the CONTEXT
functions. CONTEXT functions return different measurements based on the dimensional values in the
query. With CONTEXT, you can use one measurement regardless of the dimensional or date range level
in a table or pivot—for example, a pivot table reporting Campaign Reach at the Campaign level, and
Media Buy Reach at the Media Buy level.
To create a calculated measurement using a CONTEXT_DIMENSIONS() formula:
if(CONTEXT_DIMENSIONS () contains ‘ [Media_Buy_Name] ’ ) {
return [Media_Buy_Reach];
}
else if (CONTEXT_DIMENSIONS () contains ‘[Campaign_Name]’ ){
return [Campaign_Reach];
}
NOTE - To pull reach beyond 31 days and up to 90 days, your account must have an API User. API User is
a premium feature available for purchase.
362

=== PAGE 367 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Processing Historical Data for Reach Data Streams
When manually processing data streams, Marketing Cloud Intelligence doesn’t consider the sliding
window. Data needs to be processed in one month increments to ensure integrity of reach data is not
compromised. You have to be conscious of how your regular retrieval is set up - to ensure that the newly
loaded historical data and what you will regularly receive in the data stream are even comparable.
When processing historical data:
•
Consider the sliding window date range, and select the entire date range for each date you process.
For example, if you want to process reach data for April 2, 2022, and you have a sliding window of 31
days, select 31 days before April 2, 2022:03/02/2022 to 04/02/2022.
•
To get a reach value for each individual date, manually set the sliding window for each day. For
example, process reach for April 1, 2022, select the date ranges from March 1, 2022, to April 1, 2022
(31 days).
Field Mapping for Reach Data Streams
It’s important to map the day and reach fields correctly in a reach data stream. The mapping can vary
depending on the granularity that you’re setting up. Only map the required fields.
Mapping the Day field for reach data:
•
For a 31-day granularity, the formula for the day field is:
Day = csv['fb.date_stop']
•
For a 7-day granularity, the formula for the day field is:
Day = var date = csv['fb.date_stop'];
var dayofweek = FORMATDATE(date, 'u');
if(dayofweek != 1)
{diff = dayofweek-1;
return date = DATEADD('d',-diff,date);}
else {return date;}
Mapping the Reach measurement for reach data:
•
Reach = csv['fb.reach']
Mapping Validations
TotalConnect and API data streams offer enhanced mapping validations during the Map to Model stage
of data ingestion. The mapping validations allow you to check if there are errors or irregularities with your
mapping. They also provide details on how you can rectify errors.
363

=== PAGE 368 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Three validation messages can appear during validation: mapping errors, mapping warnings, and model
relationship errors. Errors are in red and warnings are in yellow. You can see each of these messages in
the pop-up on the left of your mapping, under Validations.
Validation Mapping
Mapping errors indicate that one or more of your mapped fields has critical mapping issues that must be
fixed before you can save your data stream. To get more information and see how to fix an error, click the
error on the left side.
Here’s an example of a mapping error indicating that an entity key mapping is missing:
This error occurs when you have mapped attributes, but you haven’t mapped the entity key. In the above
example, you have mapped the Media Buy Size attribute but you’re missing the Media Buy Key or Media
Buy Name. In order to fix this error, you must map either the Media Buy Key or Media Buy Name.
Mapping errors also show you when there’s an issue with the syntax of a mapping formula you added.
Here’s an example of a mapping formula that’s missing a parenthesis at the end:
Note You can’t save a data stream mapping until you rectify its mapping errors.
Validation Mapping Warnings
Mapping warnings indicate less critical scenarios and affect data in your data stream. Unlike mapping
errors, which prevent you from saving a data stream, you can save your data stream with mapping
warnings.
Here’s an example of a mapping warning that indicates an external field that doesn’t exist in the source
file was mapped to a data model field:
If a measurement field doesn't exist in the source file, it’s replaced with nulls whenever not present. This
scenario doesn’t cause any critical issues, but it’s something that to be aware of.
364

=== PAGE 369 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Validation Model Relationship Errors
Model relationship errors indicate that there are critical entity-relationship errors with one or more of
your mapped fields that must be fixed before you can save your data stream. For example, the “Key
attribute relationship error” indicates that there are multiple Attribute Display Name values associated
with the same Key Display Name value, which causes data aggregation issues.
To get more information about a model relationship error and how to fix it, click the error on the left
side.
Validation After Fixing Errors
After you address mapping errors or warnings, you can ensure that your new mapping is correct by
clicking “Check for new issues”. As soon as you see the “No mapping issues were found” message, you
can rest assured that the changes you made rectified any mapping errors or warnings.
Mapping a File With No Date Column
To map a file with measurement data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence Platform, the file must contain a
date column. The platform automatically identifies and pulls date information. If a date isn’t included the
file can’t be uploaded.
In some cases, the date appears in the file name. For example, a file named ‘File_06-01-2022’ contains a
date in the file name but not as a date column in the data. To use the file name as a date column, you
can apply a formula to the file and extract the date from the file name.
Extracting a Date From the File Name
If your file includes a date in the file name but not in the file itself, you can extract the date field from
the file name and use it as the date field.
Adding a Date in the Mapping Process
If your file doesn’t include a date in any of the fields, you can add a date in the mapping process,
without having an existing date field in your file.
Extracting a Date From the File Name
If your file includes a date in the file name but not in the file itself, you can extract the date field from the
file name and use it as the date field.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To extract a date from a file name: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams, and then Data Streams List
365

=== PAGE 370 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
22.. Click Create New, and upload your file.
33.. In the Map to Model window click Date to add a date field.
44.. Click the formula editor icon across from the date field and apply a formula.
Here are some examples of formulas you can use to extract a date from the file name.
The RIGHT function takes the indicated number
PARSEDATE(RIGHT(env['filename'],10),'M
of characters starting on the right of the text
M-dd-yyyy').
referenced.
The EXTRACT function obtains a substring from
the string you referenced, according to a
PARSEDATE(EXTRACT(env['filename'],'_', delimiter and position. The delimiter is the
1),'MM-dd-yyyy'). separator between the parts of the string, and
the positions are the different parts sectioned by
the delimiter.
The SELECT function obtains a specific sub string
from the string you referred to based on specific
characters or patterns. The function supports the
use of multiple regular expressions. In this
example, a regular expression is used and this
pattern is retrieved: ##-##-####—2 digits,
hyphen(-), 2 digits, hyphen, 4 digits. The 'd' in the
PARSEDATE(SELECT(env['filename'],'\\d{
syntax refers to digits, and the number in the
2}-\\d{2}-\\d{4}'),'MM-dd-yyyy')
brackets {} indicates the number of digits. The
delimiter is stated according to its location in the
pattern. You can use the select function syntax
and change the delimiter and the number of
digits in every position in the pattern according
to your data. Only use the select formula if you’re
familiar with the use of regular expressions.
Adding a Date in the Mapping Process
If your file doesn’t include a date in any of the fields, you can add a date in the mapping process, without
having an existing date field in your file.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To add a date in the mapping process: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams, and then Data Streams List.
22.. Click Create New, and upload your file.
33.. In the Map to Model window click Date to add a date field, and apply a formula in the formula editor.
366

=== PAGE 371 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
There are several date formulas you can apply.
Adds today's date to the file. The uploading date
TODAY()
is applied to the file.
Adds or subtracts time from a given date
according to the entity you entered as the
interval. For example,
DATEADD(interval,number,date)
DATEADD('d',-1,TODAY()) retrieve yesterday's
date and DATEADD('m',-1,TODAY()) retrieves
last months date.
Enter a date of your choice, for example
DATE(year,month,day)
DATE(2022,06,01).
Note When mapping files with the same date you may lose data as time goes by. Data entered for
a certain date replaces existing data for the selected date. To prevent losing your data, enter a
new date for each file uploaded without reprocessing the data.
Mapping Formulas
Use the mapping formula editor to apply formulas directly in your mapping fields. Using functions in
your mapping formulas, such as text and date functions, allows you to perform more complex
manipulations to your data.
For example, applying the COALESCE() function when there’s a change in your file column headers.
(csv[‘Media Buy Key’]) —file name is uppercase, to (csv[‘media buy key’]) —file name is lowercase. CSV
fields are case-sensitive, the new header doesn’t match the name specified in the mapping, causing the
new file process to fail.
After applying this formula COALESCE([csv['Media Buy Key'], csv['media buy key']]), reprocess the data
stream—changes are applied allowing any failed files to go through successfully.
The formulas are intuitive and use a similar syntax as Excel. More complex manipulations can be done
with MVEL, a Java-based expression language.
VLOOKUP
Use the VLOOKUP function to retrieve specific data from a table. You can use it when you’re mapping
fields from your source file to Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
FUZZYVLOOKUP
The FUZZYVLOOKUP mapping formula helps identify two elements of text, strings, or entries that are
similar but not identical.
PARSEDATE and FORMATDATE Functions
You can convert a date to text format, for example converting a date to a string format. The conversion
is called formatting and you can use the FORMATDATE function. You can also do the opposite—convert
a string into a date format to obtain a date object, the conversion is called parsing and the PARSEDATE
367

=== PAGE 372 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
function is used
REPLACE
Use the REPLACE function to replace characters or patterns in a string.
GROUPCONCAT
Use the GROUPCONCAT function to merge data from multiple rows into one field. GROUPCONCAT is
a GROUP BY function and returns a string if the group contains at least 1 non-null value, if no non-null
values exist, it returns a null value.
Using Special Characters in Java Regular Expressions
In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, you can use the Java Regular Expression (RegEx) API to search for and
modify text strings, for example, in a mapping formula or a calculated dimension. RegEx API uses
special characters called metacharacters. A metacharacter is a character that has a special meaning
during pattern processing. You can use a metacharacter as a regular character by escaping.
VLOOKUP
Use the VLOOKUP function to retrieve specific data from a table. You can use it when you’re mapping
fields from your source file to Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
VLOOKUP isn’t limited to the data stream where it’s applied, and it uses all dimensions to match data
columns.
VLOOKUP takes three parameters:
•
ValueToSearch (the CSV field)—The value used to match the two data columns. It can be csv[''] ,
dat[''] , or string.
•
searchDimension (correlating dat field)—The name of the dimension where the value is being
searched. If the dat[''] field is used as a value to search, it can’t contain VLOOKUP. For example, you
can insert csv ['Field_1']+ csv ['Field_2'] in the ValueToSearch parameter, and the
formula searches for strings like 'AAA111' and 'CCC333'. However, the returnDimension must contain
only one field.
•
returnDimension—The value that is returned. Both the searchDimension and the returnDimension
must be related to the same entity. The search and return values must be dimensions.
You can also use these optional parameters:
•
workspaceLevel (true/false)—If true, VLOOKUP searches for the value in the entire workspace. When
set to false, the function applies to the current data stream only. This option is useful when looking for
a link between two dimensions by using an attribute or name field rather than a key as the common
denominator.
•
concatvalue (true/false)—If true, VLOOKUP concatenates multiple returned dimension values
alphanumerically or chronologically. Because VLOOKUP can return only one value for each
368

=== PAGE 373 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
searchDimension, this option treats multiple dimension values as one value. You can then extract the
values using a mapping formula or calculated dimension. If concatvalue is false, VLOOKUP presents
the first value found.
•
{'streamfilter1', 'streamfilter2',...}—You can limit the search to specific data streams. This parameter
overrides the workspaceLevel parameter. You can also use the sign ‘%%’ as a placeholder for 1 or
more characters, before, after or in the middle of the string. For example, type {‘%%Facebook%%’} in
order to apply the formula on any data stream that includes the string “Facebook”
•
searchByConstantId (true/false)—if true, VLOOKUP searches the data stream by the constant ID only.
When false or empty, VLOOKUP searches by data stream name. If set to true and a data stream name
was entered by mistake, the function searches by name. To search by ID, insert your ID in the
{'streamfilter1', 'streamfilter2',..} parameter. The new data stream constant ID dimension remains
constant and is not updated when recreating the data stream. To see the constant ID value, either add
the dimension to the data stream list or query it in your tables.
You can use VLOOKUP to pull attributes from a classification data stream into another data stream in
your workspace. A classification data stream often holds attributes that aren’t retrieved as part of the
usual data upload. VLOOKUP makes it easy to link these attributes to their entity, harmonizing the
attributes with the rest of your data.
To return multiple dimension values and insert the values into separate rows, use VLOOKUP_UNNEST.
VLOOKUP_UNNEST must be mapped to a dimension that holds a many-to-many relationship with the
searched value, because the resulting returnDimension value holds a many-to-many relationship with the
searched value. If the returned dimension is mapped to the entity’s key, a many-to-many relationship
isn’t required. You can apply only one VLOOKUP_UNNEST formula per data stream.
VLOOKUP Example
You have two data streams—Data Stream 1 (Ads) and Data Stream 2 (Ads)—and each data stream has a
file. The first file has two fields, Media Buy Key and Media Buy Size (1), and the other file has the same
values for Media Buy Key, but includes two different dimensions: Media Buy Name and Media Buy
Attribute (2). Both files have matching Media Buy Key values, allowing you to use VLOOKUP to display
values for Media Buy Size with the dimensions from the other data stream.
369

=== PAGE 374 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
In Data Stream 1 (Ads), your Media Buy Key is mapped to Media Buy Key, and Media Buy Size is mapped
to Media Buy Size. (1)
In Data Stream 2 (Ads), all three dimensions are mapped to Media Buy Size, where you can add the
VLOOKUP function (2).
In the Media Buy Size dimension, add the following formula: VLOOKUP(csv['Media Buy
Key'],[Media_Buy_Key],[Media_Buy_Size], true,true)
csv['Media Buy Key'] (1) contains the Media Buy Key values from the raw data in the second file.
[Media_Buy_Key] (2) contains the Media Buy Key values from the first file. VLOOKUP looks for matching
values between these two parameters and returns [Media_Buy_Size] (3)—the corresponding Media Buy
Size values from the first file.
370

=== PAGE 375 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
After the formula returns the values you can see these values along with the rest of the dimensions.
VLOOKUP Usage
•
Make sure that the values have no extra spaces. Apply the TRIM function to the source file fields in the
VLOOKUP formula. For example:
VLOOKUP(TRIM(csv['ad_name']),[Main_Facebook_Lookup_2_Entity_Key],[Main_Facebook_Lookup_2_Entity_Attribute_01],true,true))
•
Nested VLOOKUP or VLOOKUPs conditioned on other VLOOKUPs in a mapping formula isn’t
supported. Run each VLOOKUP formula in a separate data stream for best results. For example, this
formula always returns VLOOKUP 3, and VLOOKUP 1 always stays empty. IF(VLOOKUP 1 == ‘X’,
VLOOKUP 2, VLOOKUP 3) As long as the VLOOKUPs aren’t conditioned to one another, you can use
more than one VLOOKUP in the mapping. For example, (VLOOKUP 1 + VLOOKUP 2 + VLOOKUP
3) returns the expected results.
•
VLOOKUP doesn’t support calculated fields. VLOOKUP always returns String type values, even if a date
field is being returned. Therefore, the demo value that Marketing Cloud Intelligence returns is a string
with a ‘simulation mode’ value. Sometimes when trying to VLOOKUP a date and then parsing it, you
get an ‘Unparseable date: “Simulation Mode”’ error after saving the mapping. You can resolve this by
applying a variation of this formula:
var VLOOKUP=
VLOOKUP(valueToSearch,searchDimension,returnDimension,workspaceLevel,concatValues);
IF(VLOOKUP == 'Simulation mode',null,VLOOKUP)
•
When saving a data stream mapping, Marketing Cloud Intelligence runs mapping validation. During
this process, the platform validates the mapping formulas with their values to make sure that all
formulas run successfully.
See Also
Use the Formula Editor to Map
Calculated Dimensions
371

=== PAGE 376 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
FUZZYVLOOKUP
The FUZZYVLOOKUP mapping formula helps identify two elements of text, strings, or entries that are
similar but not identical.
The formula takes the value provided as the first parameter and searches for it in the dimension
provided as the second parameter. If the value is found, the formula returns the dimension value as a
third parameter. Both the lookup dimension and the output dimension must be related to the same
entity.
Syntax:
FUZZYVLOOKUP(valueToSearch, searchDimension, returnDimension, threshold,
workspaceLevel, {'streamfilter1', 'streamfilter2', ...}, useAutomaton)
•
To search through all the Workspace’s data, set workspaceLevel to true. To search only the current
data stream, set it to false. The threshold parameter must be between 0 and 1, and 1 indicates an
exact match.
•
To narrow your search to specific streams, enter the data stream names inside curly brackets.
•
If the search dimension contains more than 2,000 unique values, the formula fails.
•
To increase the search of unique values up to 50,000, set the parameter to true. When set to false,
only 2,000 values are searched.
PARSEDATE and FORMATDATE Functions
You can convert a date to text format, for example converting a date to a string format. The conversion is
called formatting and you can use the FORMATDATE function. You can also do the opposite—convert a
string into a date format to obtain a date object, the conversion is called parsing and the PARSEDATE
function is used
PARSEDATE function
Use the PARSEDATE function to convert a custom date or a date appearing as a string to the standard
date format. For example, to map a date field appearing as a string, use the PARSEDATE function to
convert the string into a date format, and then map the field.
Syntax: PARSEDATE(dateString,pattern)
For example, you have a date in your data appearing as a string type ‘d-M-YYY’ = ’1-1-2022’.
Formula:PARSEDATE(‘1-1-2022’,’dd-MM-yyy’)
Output: The type is changed to Date and you can now map your date field.
FORMATDATE Function
Use the FORMATDATE function to convert a timestamp into a different time format. For example, you
372

=== PAGE 377 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
want to extract specific information from the date such as the month and year.
Syntax: FORMATDATE(date,pattern)
For example, you want to extract the month and year from the date 26/12/2022 using the pattern MM
yyyy
Formula: FORMATDATE(PARSEDATE(26/12/2022,dd MM yyyy),MM yyyy)
Output:12 2022
Note After a date is converted into a string, it can no longer be mapped to a date type dimension.
REPLACE
Use the REPLACE function to replace characters or patterns in a string.
Syntax: REPLACE(sourceStr,pattern,targetStr)
For example, you can apply a replace function to media buy key values, replacing hyphens with spaces:
Media buy key values:
•
Summer-sale-123
•
New-deal-news
•
ABC publish
Formula: REPLACE(csv['media buy key'],'-',' ')
Output:
•
Summer sale 123
•
New deal news
•
ABC publish
All hyphens are removed and replaced with spaces. The third value with no hyphens remains the same.
The REPLACE function also supports the use of regular expressions. For example, the regular expression
\s refers to all white-space characters. An additional backslash is added when using a regular
expression with letters and numbers, such as \s , \0 .
For example, you can apply the REPLACE function to replace spaces with hyphens.
Formula: REPLACE(csv['media buy key'],'\\s','-')
Output: 'media-buy-key'.
To use a special character, for example, an asterisk—considered a regular expression, as a regular
373

=== PAGE 378 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
character, add '\\ ' before the character.
For example:
Formula: REPLACE(csv['me*a buy key'],'\\*','di')
Output: 'media buy key'.
If the changes you want to apply to a string don’t require a regular expression, it’s recommended to use
the SUBSTITUTE function.
GROUPCONCAT
Use the GROUPCONCAT function to merge data from multiple rows into one field. GROUPCONCAT is a
GROUP BY function and returns a string if the group contains at least 1 non-null value, if no non-null
values exist, it returns a null value.
Syntax: GROUPCONCAT(groupedDimension, keyDimension, seperator)
•
groupedDimension - the dimension which values are grouped.
•
keyDimension - the values according to which the groupedDimension are grouped.
For example, you can apply GROUPCONCAT to concatenate the values of your campaign name
(groupedDimension) and campaign start date (keyDimension), with the specified separator between the
values. The concatenation is unique, with every value appearing one time.
Campaign Name Campaign Start Date
Winter 01/01/22
Fall - sales 12/01/22
Q1 – new arrivals 01/01/22
Christmas 12/01/22
Formula: GROUPCONCAT('Campaign Name', 'Campaign Start Date', ',')
Output:
Campaign Name Campaign Start Date
Q1 – new arrivals, Winter 01/01/22
Christmas, Fall – sales 12/01/22
Note
374

=== PAGE 379 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
In order for the function to work correctly a value in the keyDimension must be linked to several
values in the groupedDimension. This principle works between hierarchies and between
attributes and keys. Fields with a one-to-many relationship can be used in groupconcat.
•
The data table GROUPCONCAT runs on changes according to the setting the function is applied
on. In the mapping screen, the function runs on the source file, and in calculated dimensions, the
function runs on the workspace's database.
•
When using this function in calculated dimensions, you can’t use variables such as JavaScript or
other calculated dimensions as the keyDimension or the groupedDimension. Variables and
calculated dimensions are calculated, per row, upon execution of a query, and aren’t saved in the
workspace's database. When variables are used in GROUPCONCAT the function fails.
Using Special Characters in Java Regular Expressions
In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, you can use the Java Regular Expression (RegEx) API to search for and
modify text strings, for example, in a mapping formula or a calculated dimension. RegEx API uses special
characters called metacharacters. A metacharacter is a character that has a special meaning during
pattern processing. You can use a metacharacter as a regular character by escaping.
Escape a Metacharacter
To use the literal meaning of a Java RegEx metacharacter in a regular expression, you must cancel the
metacharacter, which is called escaping. You can escape a metacharacter in two ways.
Escape a Metacharacter
To use the literal meaning of a Java RegEx metacharacter in a regular expression, you must cancel the
metacharacter, which is called escaping. You can escape a metacharacter in two ways.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To escape special Java characters Admin
11.. Add a double backslash (\\) before the metacharacter. In this example, the double backslash is used
to escape the ? metacharacter to reference it as a delimiter.
375

=== PAGE 380 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
22.. Enclose the metacharacter within \Q and \E. In this example,\Q and \E are used to escape the |
metacharacter to reference it as a delimiter.
33.. These commonly used metacharacters require escaping to be referenced literally in a regex:
< ( [ { \ ^ - = $ ! | ] } ) ? * + . > _
44.. These functions in Marketing Cloud Intelligence contain delimiters as part of their syntax.
Use the SPLIT function where a ‘|’ character is
the delimiter:
SPLIT(text,delimiter)
SPLIT([Media_Buy_Name],'\\Q|\\E')
Use the SELECT function where a ‘>’ character is
SELECT(sourceStr,pattern)
the delimiter:
376

=== PAGE 381 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
SELECT([Media_Buy_Nam
e],'\\>(.*?)E')
Date Format Syntax
When setting up date formats in TotalConnect, you may need to convert textual data to dates using
formulas. The PARSEDATE function can be used for the conversion. The function receives text containing
the date information, and an expression that specifies how to construct the date using the text.
For example, using the expression dd/MM/yyyy along with the text 26/12/2022 would attribute the
numbers to the day, month and year, in that order.
Note There are two different options YYYY/YY or yyyy/yy. YYYY is a weekly based calendar, while yyyy
is the ordinary calendar year. It is recommended you use yyyy/yy.
Syntax Meaning Example value Example Expression
d or dd Day in the month 13/09/2022 dd/MM/yyyy
EEE The abbreviated name Tue 26/12/2022 EEE dd/MM/yyyy
of the day of the week
e.g. Tue
EEEE The full name of the day Tuesday 26/12/2022 EEEE dd/MM/yyyy
of the week e.g. Tuesday
DD Day in year, e.g. 45 45 2022 DDD yyyy (yields 14/
02/22)
YYYY or yyyy Year e.g. 2017 13/09/2022 dd/MM/yyyy
YY or yy 2 digit year e.g. 17 13/09/22 dd/MM/yy
MM Number of month e.g. 13/09/2022 dd/MM/yyyy
10
MMM First three letters of 13 Oct 2022 dd MMM yyyy
month, e.g. oct
m or mm minutes 13/10/2022 17:34 dd/MM/yyyy HH:mm
s or ss seconds dd/MM/yyyy HH:mm:ss
13/10/2022
17:34:45
S Millisecond 13/10/2022 dd/MM/yyyy
17:34:45.187 HH:mm:ss.SSS
377

=== PAGE 382 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Syntax Meaning Example value Example Expression
aa The AM/PM designator. 13/10/2022 11PM dd/MM/yyyy hhaa
h or hh The hour, using a 13/10/2022 11PM dd/MM/yyyy hhaa
12-hour clock.
H or HH The hour, using a 13/10/2022 17:34 dd/MM/yyyy HH:mm
24-hour clock.
z or zz or zzz Hours offset from GMT 13/10/2022 17:34 dd/MM/yyyy HH:mm z
GMT-02:00 (yields 13/10/2022
19:34)
Apostrophes ('') Treats anything inside as 2022y10m13d yyyy'y'MM'm'dd'd'
letters
Extracting Information From a Date Object
Use the FORMATDATE function to extract information from a date object. The function receives a date
object and an expression the specifies how the string should look.
For example, using the expression MM yyyy along with 26/12/22 extracts and displays 12 2022.
Commonly used syntax in expressions:
Example Expression Meaning Result (using the date 2022/
02/08 as an example)
yyyy The year number 2022
yy The year number as two digits 22
MMM The month's short name Feb
MMMM The month's full name February
MM The month's number (two digits) 02
M The month's number (one or 2
two digits)
ww 06
The number of weeks since the
first week to be part of the year.
The first week of 2022 starts
from 27/12/22 and ends in 02/
01/23
d Day in month (one or two digits) 8
378

=== PAGE 383 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Example Expression Meaning Result (using the date 2022/
02/08 as an example)
dd Day in month (always two digits) 08
DDD Day in year (3 digits) 039
DD Day in year (2 or 3 digits) 39
D Day in year (1 or 2 or 3 digits) 39
Formula Operators
A formula is a mathematical relationship or rule expressed in symbols. With Marketing Cloud
Intelligence, you can use formulas to create calculated measurements and dimensions when mapping
your data. Operators specify the type of calculation to perform on the terms in a formula—such as
addition, subtraction, multiplication, or division.
There are several types of formula operators available in Marketing Cloud Intelligence, as shown in the
following tables:
Comparison Operators
Operator Symbol Operator Name Description Example
== Equal Checks to see if the
"Foo" == "Foo"
values on both sides of
the operator are equal.
is true
Not Equal Checks to see if the
!= "foo" != "bar"
values on both sides of
the operator are not
is true
equal.
Greater Than Checks to see if the
> 2 > 1
value on the left side of
the operator is greater
is true
than the value on the
right.
< Less Than Checks to see if the
1<2
value on the left of the
operator is less than the
is true
value on the right side.
>= Greater Than or Equal Checks to see if the
1 >= 1
to value on the left side of
the operator is greater
379

=== PAGE 384 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Operator Symbol Operator Name Description Example
than or equal to the
is true
value on the right side.
6 >= 5
is true
<= Less Than or Equal to Checks to see if the
2 <= 2
value on the left side is
less than or equal to the
is true
value on the right.
2 <= 3
is true
Contains Value Containment Checks to see if the “Foo” var contains "Foo"
Check value on the left
contains the value on
the right.
Soundslike Soundex Check Performs a Soundex "foobar" soundslike
comparison between "fubar"
two strings. Allows you
to search by sound key,
when you know the
pronunciation but not
the spelling.
Logical Operators
Operator Symbol Operator Name Description Example
&& Logical AND Checks to see that the foo && bar
values on both sides of
the operator are true.
|| Logical OR Checks to see if either foo || bar
the value on the left or
the right is true.
or Logical OR Checks a sequence of foo or bar or barfoo or
values for emptiness 'N/A'
and returns the first
non-empty value. (This
operator, or at least its
equivalent functionality,
is referred to as the
380

=== PAGE 385 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Operator Symbol Operator Name Description Example
"elves operator" in other
languages)
~= Regular Expression Checks to see if the foo ~= '[a-z].+'
Match value on the left
matches the regular
expression on the right.
Bitwise Operators
Operator Symbol Operator Name Description Example
& Bitwise AND The & operator Foo & 5
compares each binary
digit of two integers and
returns a new integer,
with a 1 wherever both
numbers had a 1 and a
0 anywhere else
| Bitwise OR The | operator Foo | 5
compares each binary
digit across two integers
and gives back a 1 if
either of them is 1.
^ Bitwise XOR When calculating the Foo ^ 5
resulting number, it
again compares the
binary digits of these
numbers. If one or the
other is a 1, it inserts a 1
into the result,
otherwise, it will insert a
0.
Arithmetic Operators
Operator Symbol Operator Name Description Example
+ Addition
Adds the value on the 1 + 2
left to the value on the
Returns: 3
right
Note: When Mapping it
must be used in
conjunction with the
381

=== PAGE 386 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Operator Symbol Operator Name Description Example
NUMBER() formula, as
in the mapping, + is
used for concatenation
- Subtraction. Subtracts the value on
2 - 1
the right from the value
on the left.
Returns: 1
/ Division Divides the number on
2 / 1
the left by the number
on the right
Returns: 2
* Multiplication Multiplies the number
2 * 1
on the left by the
number on the right
Returns: 2
% Modulus Divides the number on
1 % 2
the left by the number
on the right and returns
Returns: 1
the remainder.
Other Operators
Operator Symbol Operator Name Description Example
+ String Concatenation
Concatenation is the 'foo' + 'bar'
process of appending
Returns: 'foobar'
one string to the end of
another string
Note: In Calculated
Measurements, + is
used for addition (see
explanation in
Arithmetic Operators)
# Concatenation Operator Concatenates two
1 # 2
literals as strings.
returns: '12'
= Assignment Assigns the value on the var = 'foobar'
right to the variable on
the left.
382

=== PAGE 387 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Mapping Functions in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Functions are used when creating mapping formulas, allowing you to perform complex manipulations to
your data. These functions are available in Marketing Cloud Intelligence and are divided into different
groups to easily search for the function you’re looking for.
•
Number Functions
•
Text Functions
•
Date Functions
•
Aggregation Functions
•
Logical Functions
•
Type Conversion Functions
•
Operators
Number Functions
Function Name Description Example
ABS(number) Returns the absolute value of a ABS(-5) = 5
number.
CEILING(number, significance) Returns the number rounded up, CEILING(5.5071,4) = 8;
away from zero, to the nearest CEILING(5.5071,2) = 6
multiple of significance.
FLOOR(number, significance) Rounds the number down, FLOOR(5.5071,3) = 3;
toward zero, to the nearest FLOOR(5.5071,4) = 4
multiple of significance.
RAND () Gets a random number from 0 RAND () =
through 1. 0.7913439124018724
ROUND(number) Rounds a number to the nearest ROUND(1.7) = 2
integer.
CHAR(number) Returns the character specified CHAR(035) = #
by a number according to the
ASCII standard.
Text Functions
Function Name Description Example
COALESCE([value1, value2, ...] ) Returns the first value from the
Your ‘Campaign Key’ in your
list that isn’t empty.
original file reads ‘Campaign ID’.
383

=== PAGE 388 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Function Name Description Example
Adding a coalesce function to
the Campaign Key field, for
example
COALESCE([csv[‘Campaign Key’],
csv[‘Campaign ID’]])
looks for the field called
Campaign Key, and if it isn’t
found, Campaign ID replaces it.
Returns a numeric code for the CODE(‘ABC’) = 65
CODE(text)
first character in a text string,
according to the ASCII standard.
COSTTYPE(text) Matches between the custom
COSTTYPE(csv['Custom Cost
cost type in the source data to
Type'])
the custom cost type in
Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
COUNTRY_TO_ISO2(country) Receives a text parameter that COUNTRY_TO_ISO2(AFGHANIST
represents a country, and finds AN) = AF
the best possible match
according to ISO2, which can be
displayed in the Map widget.
COUNT_CHAR(text,charToCount) Counts how many times a COUNT_CHAR(‘ABC_123_XYZ,
specific character appears in a ‘_’) = 2
text.
EXTRACT(text, delimiter, Extracts from the given text the
EXTRACT(csv['Media Buy
position) substring at the given position
Name'], ‘_’,1); EXTRACT('a_b_c',
from the given text, after
'_', 1) returns 'b'
splitting by the given delimiter.
Explanation: The function looks
into the Media Buy Name and
EXTRACTs the substring from
position 1 (second position, as
the index begins at 0). The
positions are defined by the
delimiter, in this example it’s ‘_’.
FIND(findText, withinText) Returns the starting position of
FIND('fall',csv['campaign'])
findText in withinText. returns -1
if withinText doesn’t contain
384

=== PAGE 389 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Function Name Description Example
findText, The count starts at 0.
Explanation: the function looks
for the string 'fall' and returns
the position in which the string
starts, output -
'fall - cosmetics' returns 0
'fashion fall' returns 8
'beauty - fourth quarter' returns
-1
FUZZYMATCH(valueToMatch,arr Searches for a string in an array
FUZZYMATCH("ABC
ay,threshold) of values that potentially match
Compani",{"ABC Company
using duplicate-detection
Inc","Apple Inc","IBM
algorithms that calculate the
Company"},0.8) returns "ABC
similarity of two streams of data.
Company Inc".
Returns the matched string from
the array for a match, or an
The threshold parameter must
empty string if no match is
be a value from 0 through 1.
found.
Threshold of 1 means an exact
match.
FUZZYVLOOKUP("ABC
FUZZYVLOOKUP(valueToSearch, The FUZZYVLOOKUP function
Compani", searchDimension,
searchDimension, uses the value provided as the
returnDimension, 0.8) - returns
returnDimension, threshold, first parameter and fuzzy match
"ABC Company Inc". if the list of
workspaceLevel, {'streamfilter1', it in the dimension values
the return dimension contains
'streamfilter2', ...}, provided as the second
the value("ABC Company Inc",
useAutomaton) parameter. After it’s found, it
"Apple Inc", "IBM Company").
returns the value of the
The threshold parameter must
dimension used as the third
be a value from 0 through 1.
parameter.
threshold of 1 means an exact
match.
Both the lookup dimension and
the output dimension must be
related to the same entity.
WorkspaceLevel gets a true value
if the intention is to perform the
search in the data of all the
workspace's data. Set the value
to false to search it in the current
data stream only. The threshold
385

=== PAGE 390 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Function Name Description Example
parameter must be a value from
0 through 1. threshold of 1
means an exact match.
streamfilter (optional) – insert
the Data Stream Names you
want to apply the function to
inside the {curly brackets},
instead of 'streamfilter#'. If
'searchDimension' contains
more than 2,000 unique values,
the function fails. useAutomaton
- forces the use of Levenshtein
automaton algorithm, which
supports large dictionary sizes.
GET_EXCHANGE_RATE(date, The function retrieves the
The function multiplies the
fromISO, toISO) currency rate for a specific date,
relevant Measurement field from
and the currency rate can be
the original data with the convert
used to convert the
rate retrieved by the
Measurements data
GET_EXCHANGE_RATE formula.
The date section is filed by the
'day' CSV field. The other two
sections relate to the conversion
you want to perform. In the
'fromISO' section, enter the
original currency, and in the
'toISO' enter the currency you
want to convert to.
For example: csv['Post Click
Revenue']*GET_EXCHANGE_RAT
E(csv['Day'],'USD','GBP')
INDEXOF(array,findText)
Searches the array for the INDEXOF(csv['row'], 'Campaign
specified item, and returns its ID') == 0 returns true if
position. 'Campaign ID' was found in the
first cell.
Returns -1 if the item isn’t found.
The first item has position 0, the
If the item is present more than
second item has position 1, and
one time, the INDEXOF function
so on.
returns the position of the first
386

=== PAGE 391 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Function Name Description Example
occurrence.
ISEMPTY(value) Returns whether the value is
ISEMPTY(csv['Media Buy Key'])
empty or not.
can equal ‘true’ or ‘false’
depending on whether there’s a
value for Media Buy Key or not.
LEFT(‘ABCD_1111’,4) = ABCD
LEFT(text, numOfChars) Returns the requested number
of characters from the left.
LEN(text) Returns the number of LEN(‘ABCD_1111’) = 9
characters in the given text.
LOWER(text) Converts all uppercase letters in LOWER(‘InteLliGence’) =
a text string to lowercase. ‘intelligence’
MATCH(valueToMatch, array) Searches for a specified item in MATCH(1,{1,2,3}) returns true as
an array of values, and then the value '1' exists in the array.
returns a boolean result.
PROPER(text) Capitalizes the first letter in a PROPER(‘‘intelligence’) =
text string and any other letters ‘Intelligence’
in text that follow any character
other than a letter. Converts all
other letters to lowercase letters.
REPLACE(sourceStr, pattern, Replaces every match of a
REPLACE(csv['Campaign
targetStr) pattern(a regex expression) in
Name'],'-', ' ')
the source string to the targeted
strong. sourceStr to targetStr.
Explanation: In the Campaign
Name, takes every instance of “-”
and replaces it with a space bar.
Example: REPLACE(csv['media
buy key'],'\\s','-')
Explanation: All white-space
characters for example, the
space bar is replaced by a
hyphen (-), from 'media buy 1' to
'media-buy-1'. //s refers to the
regular expression /s
RIGHT(text, numOfChars) Returns the requested number RIGHT(‘ABCD_1111’,4) = 1111
387

=== PAGE 392 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Function Name Description Example
of characters from the right.
SELECT(sourceStr, pattern) Selects the first match of the SELECT('Hello B wow E
pattern (a regex expression) in Goodbye', 'B.*?E') would return
the source string. 'B wow E'.
SENTIMENT(text) Extracts positive/neutral/
The formula can be applied in
negative sentiment from the
the Mapping process or in a
given text.
calculated dimension.
When applying the formula
insert the relevant CSV or
Marketing Cloud Intelligence
field you want to analyze into the
brackets.
SET_VAR/GET_VAR(name,value) Sets / gets a global variable A common use is for data files
value. that have a certain value that
appears after and applies to all
the rows beneath it.
if(!ISEMPTY(csv['relevant field']))
{SET_VAR('relevant Intelligence
field',csv['relevant field']);return
(csv['relevant field '],);} else
{return (GET_VAR('relevant
Intelligence field'));}
SPLIT('a,b,c', ',') returns an array
SPLIT(text,delimiter) Split is used the same as “text to
with 3 items. Can be used for
columns” in Excel to create
files that have multiple
multiple columns from values in
dimensions contained in one
a single field with a common
column that must be mapped
delimiter. It splits a text string
individually. This formula can
into an array, by using a delimiter
separate them into individual
character. It returns a zero-
columns to be mapped to
based, one-dimensional array
dimensions.
holding the parts of the original
text string.
SUBSTITUTE(text, oldText, Substitutes newText for oldText SUBSTITUTE(‘ABCD_1111’,
newText) in a text string. Use SUBSTITUTE ‘1111’, XYZ) = ABCD_XYZ
when you want to replace
specific text in a text string.
388

=== PAGE 393 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Function Name Description Example
SUBSTRING(text, beginIndex, Returns the substring of the text SUBSTRING('ABCD_1111',0,4) =
endIndex) beginning at beginIndex ABCD
(inclusive), and ending at
endIndex (exclusive).
Matches between the custom TargetType(csv['Custom Target
TARGETTYPE(text)
target type in the source data to Type'])
the custom target type in
Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
Removes all spaces from the text TRIM('Summer 2020 - Seasonal
TRIM(text)
except for single spaces between Sale)' = Summer 2020 - Seasonal
words. Sale
UPPER(text) Converts all lowercase letters in a UPPER(‘intelligence’) =
text string to uppercase letters. ‘INTELLIGENCE’
Decodes an application/x-www- URL_DECODE
URL_DECODE(text)
form-urlencoded string using a (https%3A%2F%2Fwww.urlen
UTF-8 encoding scheme. coder.org%2F) =
https://www.urlencoder.org/
URL_ENCODE
URL_ENCODE(text) Translates a text into
(https://www.urlencoder.org/)
application/x-www-form-
=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.urlen
urlencoded format using a UTF-8
coder.org%2F
encoding scheme.
See more about this function
VLOOKUP(valueToSearch, Uses the value provided as the
here.
searchDimension, first parameter and searches it in
returnDimension, brandLevel, the dimension provided as the
concatValues, {'streamFilter1', second parameter. After it’s
'streamFilter2',...}) found, it returns the value of the
dimension used as the third
parameter.
Date Functions
Function Name Description Example
DATE(year, month) Returns the first of the given DATE(2020,5) = 1 May 2020
month in the given year. Note:
Date formulas don’t allow the
use of a '0' prefix (like in '08'). Be
389

=== PAGE 394 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Function Name Description Example
sure to insert numbers without a
'0' prefix, for example, '8' and
not '08'.
DATE(year, month, day) DATE(2020,5,24) = 24 May 2020
Returns the date representing
the given arguments.
Note: Date formulas don’t allow
the use of a '0' prefix (like in
'08'). Be sure to insert numbers
without a '0' prefix, for example,
'8' and not '08'.
DATEADD(interval, number, Returns the date after a certain FORMATDATE(DATEADD('m',-1,c
date) time or date interval is added. sv['date']),'yyyy-MM-dd')
The interval must be one of the Explanations: The output is the
following: 'yyyy' (year), 'q' given date, only a month back.
(quarter), 'm' (month) , 'd' (day), So if the input is '2015-09-01'
'ww' (week), 'h' (hour), 'n' the output will be '2015-08-01'
(minute), 's' (second). Note: Date formulas don’t allow
the use of a '0' prefix (like in
'08'). Be sure to insert numbers
without a '0' prefix, for example,
'8' and not '08'.
DATEDIFF(interval, startDate, Returns the number of time DATEDIFF('d', DATE(2020,5),
endDate) units specified by 'interval' DATE(2020,5,24)) = 23 days
between the startDate and the
endDate. The startDate and
endDate arguments must be
date objects or date strings in
standard form. The interval must
be one of the following: 'yyyy'
(year), 'q' (quarter), 'm' (month) ,
'd' (day), 'ww' (week), 'h' (hour),
'n' (minute), 's' (second).
DAYPRECISION(date) Returns the given date with day For example: the date
precision. For example, hours/ '12-Jun-2012 16:34' will be
minutes/seconds fields are set converted to '12-Jun-2012
to 0. 00:00' Note: Date formulas don’t
allow the use of a '0' prefix (like
in '08'). Be sure to insert
numbers without a '0' prefix, for
390

=== PAGE 395 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Function Name Description Example
example, '8' and not '08'.
DAYSBETWEEN(startDate,endDat Returns the number of days DAYSBETWEEN(DATE(2020,5),
e) between the given startDate and DATE(2020,5,24)) = 23 days
endDate. The arguments must
be date objects or date strings in
standard form.
DAYS_IN_MONTH(date) Returns the number of days in a DAYS_IN_MONTH(DATE(2020,5
specified month. )) = 31 days
LAST_DATA_DATE() Returns the last data date of the LAST_DATA_DATE() =
current data stream. 2020010200
NETWORKDAYS(startDate,endDa NETWORKDAYS(DATE(2020,5),D
Returns the number of workdays
te) ATE(2020,5,24)) = 16 days
between two dates, excluding
weekends.
The arguments must be date
objects or date strings in
standard form.
NOW () Returns the current system date Using NOW() returns the date
and time. and time in this format: Wed
May 27 14:55:03 UTC 2020
SETHOUR(date, hour) SETHOUR(DATE(2020,5,24), 17)
Returns the given date set with
= Sun May 24 17:00:00 UTC
the given hours. Hours are
2020
numeric values from 0 through
23.
Note: Date formulas don’t allow
the use of a '0' prefix, like in '08'.
Insert numbers without a '0'
prefix, such as '8' and not '08'.
TODAY() Returns the current system date. TODAY() returns the system date
in this format: Wed May 27
00:00:00 UTC 2020
TOSECONDS(duration) Returns the number of seconds TOSECONDS('1:30:00') = 5400
represented by the given seconds
duration string, with the format
HH:mm:ss/HH:mm:ss.SSS
YESTERDAY() Returns yesterday's system date. YESTERDAY() returns the system
391

=== PAGE 396 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Function Name Description Example
date in this format: Tue May 26
00:00:00 UTC 2020
Aggregation Functions
Function Name Description Example
COUNT(groupKey) Computes the row count, COUNT("csv['campaign']") results
optionally it can be calculated in the total count of rows per
for any group aggregation campaign.
provided by the groupKey
parameter.
GROUPCONCAT_FUNCTION(gro Concatenates the groupedVal by
GROUPCONCAT(csv['Ad
upedVal, groupKey, separator) the given groupKey, with the
Name'],csv['Campaign Name'],'-
separator string between each
')
two grouped values. The same
value repeated won’t be
Explanation: This results in a
concatenated twice.
Dimension value that is all the
Ad Names linked to a certain
Campaign Name concatenated
without repetition
SUM(measurementName,measu Computes the sum of the given SUM("clicks", csv['clicks']) results
rementValue,groupKey) measurement, optionally it can in the total sum for the clicks
be calculated for any group column.
aggregation provided by the
groupKey parameter.
Logical Functions
Function Name Description Example
AND(condition1, condition2) Logical AND, checks to see that AND(csv['Campaign Name']
both conditions are true. contains ‘ABC’, csv[Media Buy
Name'] contains 123)
IF(condition, resultIfTrue, Returns the second argument if
IF(csv['Media Buy Name']
resultIfFalse) the first argument is true, and
contains ‘_DIG’, ’Digital’, ’Print’)
the third argument if otherwise.
Explanation: If the Media Buy
Name field contains the
392

=== PAGE 397 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Function Name Description Example
substring ‘_DIG’, return ‘Digital’,
else return ‘Print’.
NOT(condition) Logical NOT, reverses the logic of NOT(csv['Campaign Name']
its argument, true becomes false contains ‘ABC’)
and vice versa.
OR(condition1, condition2) Logical OR, checks to see if OR(csv['Campaign Name']
either one of the conditions is contains ‘ABC’, csv['Campaign
true. Name'] contains ‘XYZ’)
Type Conversion Functions
Function Name Description Example
COMPRESS(value1)
COMPRESS(LoremIpsumiss
Compresses a string using gzip
implydummytextofthepri
and returns it in base 64. The
ntingandtypesettingind
function compresses long strings
ustry
into shorter strings. When using
LoremIpsumhasbeenthein
this function you must
dustrysstandarddummyte
decompress the data after it’s
xteversincethe1500swhe
uploaded into the platform,
nanunknownprintertooka
using the UCOMPRESS function.
galleyof
When applied to short strings typeandscrambledittoma
(roughly, below 300 characters), keatypespecimenbookIth
the function produces longer assurvivednotonlyfivec
encoded strings. If the strings enturiesbutalsotheleap
you’re applying the function to intoelectronic
aren’t stable length-wise, use an typesettingremaininges
IF function, for example: sentiallyunchangedItwa
IF(LEN(csv['section'])>300,COM spopularisedinthe1960s
PRESS withthereleaseofLetras
etsheetscontaining
(csv['section'],csv['section']).
LoremIpsumpassagesandm
orerecentlywithdesktop
publishingsoftwarelike
AldusPageMakerincludin
gversionsofLoremIpsum)
= H4sIAAAAAAAA/01Qy07
DMBD8JXoAiSPHSkXiFzbOt
393

=== PAGE 398 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Function Name Description Example
lnF3rW86wb/PZMgWi7RxPY
8L9a4nKv3Iu5Sah5zL2UEf
4ddY+HaREP0RjrHqOwc+5/
o3D3auDzYC/nErGD83bkHS
NTmhyDfubloYrw6vb68+La
wknZd1TY9nLiF2Uo3ypkHA
sASIp4alSnzLBFWaGU6slR
OUlgnMM6BAN7bXe48q4VpH
lf
ghEi9CfvUg7IbnDNThZMBp
Gimkv4VQx0SBWB3UAU5Rte
0EE7mc2zk1WrP1MSRZq97e
n9DEYkFuO3izna9cDSA8IX
xSabxq/rcqyIuwQXtCg
7bkTSPXWhmX8Nq7VMWX8By
DLERxGXlj4x1v8D8xAxYLO
WOHLdjWVO8fFr8AM3IW0rb
AQAA
DECODE_BASE64(value1) This function is used to decode DECODE_BASE64(string in
strings encoded by the base64) = original string.
ENCODE_BASE64 function.
ENCODE_BASE64(value1) ENCODE_BASE64(string) =
When using this function you’ll
string in base64
must decode the data after it’s
uploaded into the platform. Use
the DECODE_BASE64 function.
When applied to short strings
(roughly, below 300 characters),
the function produces longer
encoded strings. If the strings
you’re applying the function to
aren’t stable length-wise, use an
IF function, for example:
IF(LEN(csv['section'])>300,ENCO
DE_BASE64(csv['section']),csv['s
ection'])
(csv['section'],csv['section']).
394

=== PAGE 399 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Function Name Description Example
FORMATDATE(date, pattern) Returns the string representation
For example: 'yyyy-MM-dd' -->
of the given date according to
2014-02-25, 'dd MMM-yyyy' -->
the supplied pattern.
25 Feb-2014, and so on.
Date formulas don’t allow the
use of a '0' prefix (like in '08').
Insert numbers without a '0'
prefix, for example, '8' and not
'08'.
FORMATDATE_DEFAULT(date) Returns the default (yyyy-MM-dd FORMATDATE_DEFAULT(DATE(2
HH:mm:ss.S) Intelligence string 020,5,24)) = 2020-05-24
representation of the given date. 00:00:00.0
MD5(stringToHash) Returns an MD5 hash of the MD5(Password123) =
given string. 42f749ade7f9e195bf475f37a44
cafcb
NUMBER(value1) Converts a string to a number. NUMBER('1000') returns the text
string ‘1000’ into the number
1000
PARSEDATE { "dateString", Returns the date object specified
For example:
"pattern" }, by the given dateString using the
given pattern.
'2014-02-25' ---> 'yyyy-MM-dd',
'25 Feb-2014' ---> 'dd MMM-yyyy'
SHA256(stringToHash) Returns an SHA256 hash of the SHA256(Password123) =
given string. 008c70392e3abfbd0fa47bbc2e
d96aa99bd49e159727fcba0f2e
6abeb3a9d601
STRIP_HTML(value1) Strip's html from a string. STRIP_HTML(csv['Web Analytics
Page Path']
UNCOMPRESS(value1) This function is used to
UNCOMPRESS(value1)
uncompress strings encoded by
the COMPRESS function.
UNCOMPRESS(shorter_string in
base64) =original string
395

=== PAGE 400 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Operators
Function Name Description
a != b Not Equals Check. Checks to see if the values on
both sides of the operator aren’t equal. For
example, 'foo' != 'bar' is true.
a % b Divides the number on the left by the number on
the right and returns the remainder.
a && b Checks to see that the values on both sides of the
operator are true.
a * b Multiples the number on the left by the number
on the right.
a + b In case the operands are numbers, adds the value
on the left to the value on the right. In case the
operands are strings, concatenates the string on
the left to the string on the right.
a – b Subtracts the value on the right from the value on
the left.
a / b Divides the number on the left by the number on
the right.
a < b Checks to see if the value on the left side of the
operator is less than value on the right.
a <= b Checks to see if the value on the left-hand side is
less than or equal to the value on the right.
a == b Checks to see if the values on both sides of the
operator are equal. For example, 'foo' == 'foo' is
true.
a > b Checks to see if the value on the left side of the
operator is greater than the value on the right.
a >= b Checks to see if the value on the left-hand side is
greater than or equal to the value on the right.
a || b Checks to see if either the value on the left or the
right is true.
if(Boolean_expression){
Java Based IF-Else
//Executes when the Boolean expressi
396

=== PAGE 401 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Function Name Description
on is true
}else{
//Executes when the Boolean expressi
on is false
}
Example:
if(Site Name contains ‘Twit’){
Site Group = ‘Twitter’;
}else{
Site Group = ‘Other;
}
Explanation: If the Site Name contains the
substring ‘Twit’, assign Site Group equals ‘Twitter’.
If the Site Name doesn’t contain the substring
‘Twit’, assign Site Group equals ‘Other’.
Control Flow Operators
Marketing Cloud Intelligence supports an assortment of control flow operators, so you can perform
advanced scripting operations. Aside from the custom functions that are supported in the formula editor,
you can write formulas based in C and Java Script syntax to make more complex decisions.
IF
if(Boolean_expression) { //Statements will execute if the Boolean expression i
s true }
For Example:
if (csv['Clicks'] > 550) { [Daily Goal Status] = ‘Daily Goal Reached’; }
IF-Else
C/Java-style if-then-else blocks are fully supported.
if(Boolean_expression){ //Executes when the Boolean expression is true }else{
397

=== PAGE 402 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
//Executes when the Boolean expression is false }
For example:
if (csv['Impressions'] > 0) { "Greater than zero!"; } else if (csv['Impression
s'] == -1) { "Minus one!"; } else { "Something else!"; }
if (csv['Clicks'] > 550) { [Daily Goal Status] = ‘Daily Goal Reached’ } else{
[Daily Goal Status] = ‘Daily Goal Not Met }
IF-ELSE IF
if(Boolean_expression 1){ //Executes when the Boolean expression 1 is true }el
se if(Boolean_expression 2){ //Executes when the Boolean expression 2 is true
}else if(Boolean_expression 3){ //Executes when the Boolean expression 3 is tr
ue }else { //Executes when the none of the above condition is true. }
For Example:
if (csv['placement_name'] contains "abc"){ csv['placement_name'] = "ABC"; } el
se if (csv['placement_name'] contains "def"){ csv['placement_name'] = "DEF"; e
lse { csv['placement_name'] = "XYZ"; }
Ternary Statements
Ternary Statements are supported just as in Java:
csv['Impressions'] > 0 ? "Yes" : "No";
Nested Ternary Statements
csv['Impressions'] > 0 ? "Yes" : (csv['Impressions'] == -1 ? "Minus One!" : "N
o")
Foreach
Similar to the For Each operator in Java 1.5 in both syntax and functionality. It accepts two parameters
separated by a colon, the first is the local variable for the current element, and the second is the
collection or array to be iterated.
For example:
398

=== PAGE 403 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
count = 0; names = ""; foreach (name : people) { count++; names = names + " -
"; } return names;
Since Strings are treated as iterable objects you can iterate a String (character by character) with a
Foreach block:
str = "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ"; foreach (el : str) { System.out.print("["
+ el + "]"); }
The above example outputs:
[A][B][C][D][E][F][G][H][I][J][K][L][M][N][O][P][Q][R][S][T][U][V][W][X][Y][Z]
You can also use it to count up to an integer value (from 1):
foreach (x : 9) { System.out.print(x); }
Which outputs: 123456789
For Loop
Standard C for-loops:
for (int i =0; i < 100; i++) { System.out.println(i); }
Do While, Do Until
Do While and Do Until are supported, following the same convention as Java, with Until being the
inverse of While.
do { x = something(); } while (x != null);
... is semantically equivalent to ...
do { x = something(); } until (x == null);
While, Until
standard While, with the addition of the inverse Until.
while (isTrue()) { doSomething(); }
or
399

=== PAGE 404 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
until (isFalse()) { doSomething(); }
Other Supported Functions:
•
For Loop
•
Foreach
•
Do While
•
Do Until
•
While
•
Until
Mapping Geolocation Dimensions in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Geolocation refers to the geographical location of an internet-connected device. Found from the user's
IP address, geolocation includes information about the device user's location, such as country, region,
and city. After you map geolocation, you can create a Map widget so that you can see performance
broken down by region.
For example, you can see which country had the highest revenue in car sales.
Map Geolocation Dimensions
If your data stream contains geolocation information, you can use the different geolocation
dimensions when mapping.
View Location Data in Your Workspace
To determine which location data is available in Marketing Cloud Intelligence, go to the Dimensions
List.
Use Map Widgets
After you map geolocation dimensions, use the Map widget to view your geolocation data live. Map
widgets are created and defined just like all other widgets.
Map Geolocation Dimensions
If your data stream contains geolocation information, you can use the different geolocation dimensions
when mapping.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To map geolocation dimensions: Admin
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams and then Data Streams List.
22.. Create a data stream or edit one.
33.. To enter the Mapping page, click Map to Model. All geolocation dimensions are located under
400

=== PAGE 405 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Dimensions.
The types of geolocation dimensions differ from country to country because each country has its own
way of gathering geographical data. These geolocation dimensions can be mapped:
A dimension that must be mapped as a
predefined field. You can then map any other
Country
additional granularity that you want, such as
region, city, ZIP code, and so on.
Location Level No longer needed.
Location Value No longer needed.
Differs by country. For example, states in the US,
Region
provinces in Canada, and so on.
DMA/Metro Not available for all countries.
City Differs by country.
Zip Code Not valid for all countries.
Neighborhood Not valid for all countries.
Each dimension has its own properties as well. Some are hard-coded, while others can be edited
manually. To view a dimension’s properties, select the dimension, and then on the right-hand side of
the page, expand the Default Value dropdown list to view the options. For example, here are the
attributes of Country.
Note Make sure that you always map at the most granular level. For example, if both country and
city are present in the uploaded data, map both of them.
View Location Data in Your Workspace
To determine which location data is available in Marketing Cloud Intelligence, go to the Dimensions List.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To view location data: Admin, Viewer, or Power User
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, select Dimensions and then Dimensions List.
22.. To view all dimensions, click Show All.
33.. To filter by geolocation fields, create a filter in the Entity column by selecting Contains and then geo.
401

=== PAGE 406 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
44.. Select the row of the geolocation entity, and then click Entity Data. A list of all location data in the
platform populates.
Use Map Widgets
After you map geolocation dimensions, use the Map widget to view your geolocation data live. Map
widgets are created and defined just like all other widgets.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a map widget: Admin or Power User
For more information, see Create a Widget.
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, select Visualize, and then select a page.
22.. To enter edit mode, click the pencil icon.
33.. To add a widget, click the + sign.
44.. From the left-hand side of the page, select a Map widget.
55.. Set the measurements and dimensions. Here’s an example of total revenue of cars sold per state in the
US.
66.. To view where the highest revenue occurred, hover over a state.
Advanced Settings in Data Streams in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Define advanced settings to your data stream to select load modes, load rules, or configure additional
settings. The available settings vary based on the type of data stream that you’re creating.
Data Stream Version History
Use data stream version history to save versions of your data streams. Save your changes without
processing the data, and then edit the data stream later. Create versions to compare their settings and
apply the settings that you prefer.
Automatic Data Refresh in Data Streams
You can use automatic data refresh to import data from a third-party technical vendor or to have data
sent automatically via email or FTPS/SFTP. Automatic data refresh allows you to avoid uploading your
data manually each time new data must be ingested into the data stream.
Configure Data Stream Refresh and Frequency
If you’re creating or editing an API connector data stream, you can define the frequency and schedule
for refreshing the data stream.
402

=== PAGE 407 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Define Data Stream Attributes
You can define or modify the data stream attributes, including custom attributes and channels.
Data Load Modes
When Marketing Cloud Intelligence receives new data, it checks whether the dates contained in the
file are new or if they overlap with a previous file that was processed. If the dates are new, the
information is added to the data stream. If the dates are already accounted for, the specified load
mode determines how the new data is displayed.
Data Load Rules
You can use Data Load rules to filter out unwanted data before you upload it to Marketing Cloud
Intelligence. Create a load rule to set the criteria for the data that you want to upload. Then apply that
rule to a data stream, and then apply a rule to filter out data before it’s loaded. For example, you want
to upload data from your latest campaign, but due to an input error, the campaign dates are incorrect
in your spreadsheet. Rather than create another spreadsheet, you can create a rule that tells Marketing
Cloud Intelligence to ignore this campaign’s data.
Apply Parent-Child Relationships to Share Attributes Across Data Streams
To share dimensional values across data streams, you can create parent-child relationships.
Define Additional Settings to a Data Stream
Define additional settings to your data stream, such as ignore empty rows, execute only when part of a
workflow and more. The settings are dynamic according to the data stream type you’re creating or
editing.
Data Stream Version History
Use data stream version history to save versions of your data streams. Save your changes without
processing the data, and then edit the data stream later. Create versions to compare their settings and
apply the settings that you prefer.
Navigate Your Version History
Access your version history to view your data stream versions, make edits, and apply changes.
Navigate Your Version History
Access your version history to view your data stream versions, make edits, and apply changes.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To access version history: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, in the Map to Model or Advanced screens, click Version History.
22.. To save a version of your data stream click Save to Version History under Current Version.
33.. Name your version, add a description, and save your version.
44.. To access a saved version of your data stream, select the data stream, and then click the pencil icon to
403

=== PAGE 408 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
edit it.
55.. From the Map to Model or Advanced screens, click Version History. The version history menu
includes:
Previous Versions saved versions of this data stream.
Last Run the last saved version of this data stream.
the last time this version was saved
Auto Saved
automatically.
Current Version the version you’re working on.
66.. To save the current version you’re working on click Save to Version History.
77.. To restore a saved version, select the version from the version history menu and click Restore Version.
10 versions can be saved at one time.
88.. To save additional versions, delete existing versions first. Versions are automatically deleted 60 days
after their creation date.
Automatic Data Refresh in Data Streams
You can use automatic data refresh to import data from a third-party technical vendor or to have data
sent automatically via email or FTPS/SFTP. Automatic data refresh allows you to avoid uploading your
data manually each time new data must be ingested into the data stream.
Using automatic data refresh you configure your schedule frequency and other settings related to your
data refresh automation in TotalConnect and API data streams. You can define automatic data refresh in
two places.
Note Certain settings can differ between TotalConnect and API data streams.
You can click the Automate Data Refresh button at the top-right corner of the Data Stream window,
which appears throughout the entire data ingestion process (1). Or when defining or editing advanced
settings, click the Edit icon (2).
Import Data via Technical Vendor
Importing data via technical vendors schedules the data stream to update automatically via a remote
server. This method tells the platform to import files from remote servers according to the delivery
method of your choice. The settings are dynamic and based on the technical vendor you select.
Typically, you use this method when you want to retrieve data from an external source and have it
update automatically. Available for TotalConnect data streams.
Send Data via Email to the Data Stream
This method allows you to send files via email to the data stream. Every data stream has its own
unique email address and can accept attachments or files downloaded through links.
404

=== PAGE 409 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Upload Files Using FTPS or SFTP
This method allows you to upload files into a TotalConnect data stream by using an FTPS or SFTP
connection. Available for TotalConnect Data Streams
Import Data via Technical Vendor
Importing data via technical vendors schedules the data stream to update automatically via a remote
server. This method tells the platform to import files from remote servers according to the delivery
method of your choice. The settings are dynamic and based on the technical vendor you select. Typically,
you use this method when you want to retrieve data from an external source and have it update
automatically. Available for TotalConnect data streams.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To edit a data stream: Admin
For example, if you have monthly reports in a Dropbox folder, you can use this type of connection to pull
the reports from the source monthly.
11.. Navigate to the Connect & Mix tab.
22.. Expand Data Streams, and then expand Data Streams List.
33.. Select the data stream that you want to modify.
44.. At the top right-hand corner of the page, click Automate Data Refresh.
55.. To configure the automatic pull from a technical vendor, click Import Data (1) and then click Select
Technical Vendor (2). The settings can vary per technical vendor, but some of them overlap. This
example shows the settings when configuring a connection to Dropbox.
—
Schedule Frequency Select the frequency with which the data stream
pulls files from the external source. You can
choose once, hourly, daily, weekly, bi-weekly,
monthly, quarterly, and yearly.
Credentials Select your credentials to authenticate with the
platform where your files are stored. If a set of
credentials hasn’t been added to Marketing
Cloud Intelligence previously, to create a new
authentication, click Add New.
Directory Enter the directory where your files are located.
To evaluate any Marketing Cloud Intelligence
functions that were used as part of the directory
or file name, use the Evaluate button.
405

=== PAGE 410 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
File Name Wildcard
Set a wildcard to instruct the data stream which
file to pick from the directory or folder. For
example, use the asterisk for a part of a file name
that could vary. For example, *.report.xls covers
both May.report.xls and June.report.xls. To
evaluate any Marketing Cloud Intelligence
functions that were used as part of the file name,
click Evaluate next to the text box.
••
If you want to pull a specific file, for example,
an Excel file, you can use the File name
wildcard option and enter *.xlsx. If you want to
include certain parts of the names of the files
you want to retrieve when uploading the data,
you can also use the File name wildcard match
option. For example, let’s say you have 100
files in your directory and you want to retrieve
only those files that contain the word
“Campaign”. Because only 20 files contain the
word, we expect only 20 files to be retrieved.
••
In this case, you can use the wildcard option
using this syntax: *Campaign*. Because this is a
file name, not a file extension, you must use
the correct syntax.
•• - Add two asterisks around the word that you
want used in the filtering. You can also
retrieve files from cloud storage daily in a
directory named with today’s date by adding
to the directory path
[code]FORMATDATE(TODAY(), 'yyyy-
MM-dd')[/code] .
•• - Functions like TODAY() and NOW() always
return the date in UTC timezone (not the
timezone of the workspace) when they’re
used in this feature.
Delete after download Enable this checkbox to delete the files from
your vendor or file storage after they’re
downloaded by the platform.
Retrieve only new files Enable this checkbox to only retrieve files that
were modified after the most recent retrieval.
Merge files Enable this checkbox to merge multiple files into
a single file before processing. All files must have
406

=== PAGE 411 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
identical headers.
Send Data via Email to the Data Stream
This method allows you to send files via email to the data stream. Every data stream has its own unique
email address and can accept attachments or files downloaded through links.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To edit a data stream: Admin
You typically use this method when a data stream is updated regularly. You can set up the automatic data
stream update when creating a new data stream or within an existing data stream.
Available for TotalConnect data streams.
11.. Navigate to the Connect & Mix tab.
22.. Expand Data Streams, and then expand Data Streams List.
33.. Select the data stream that you want to modify and click the pencil edit icon.
44.. Click the pencil edit icon next toAutomate Data Refresh.
55.. Click Copy Email Details, and then click the copy icon next to the Email details.
66.. To forward a file to a TotalConnect data stream via email, add it as an attachment to the email, or
include a direct download link in the email’s body. If you’re using a link, make sure that it isn’t login-
protected and that it allows for non-restricted downloads of the file you’re uploading.
Upload Files Using FTPS or SFTP
This method allows you to upload files into a TotalConnect data stream by using an FTPS or SFTP
connection. Available for TotalConnect Data Streams
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To edit a data stream: Admin
11.. Navigate to the Connect & Mix tab.
22.. Expand Data Streams, and then expand Data Streams List.
33.. Select the data stream that you want to modify.
44.. At the top right-hand corner of the page, click Automate Data Refresh.
aa.. Click Copy FTPS/SFTP Details.
407

=== PAGE 412 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
bb.. Decide if you’re using FTPS or SFTP, and then add the unique details to the designated location in
your external FTPS/FTPS service to send files to this data stream. Your data is refreshed every time a
file is sent.
If you’re using the same FTPS/SFTP client to send multiple files to multiple different data streams in
the same workspace, it’s advisable to add a “$” and the data stream’s unique ID after the FTPS/SFTP
user. For example, tgornenska@salesforce.com$123456. These additions ensure that your files are
sent to the correct data stream in your workspace, because sometimes FTPS/SFTP clients cache
your FTPS/SFTP username and password.
Configure Data Stream Refresh and Frequency
If you’re creating or editing an API connector data stream, you can define the frequency and schedule for
refreshing the data stream.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To edit a data stream: Admin
11.. Navigate to the Connect & Mix tab.
22.. Expand Data Streams, and then expand Data Streams List.
33.. Select the data stream that you want to modify and click the edit icon.
44.. Click edit in the Automate Data Refreshwindow.
aa.. To determine when the data stream refreshes, select the frequency from the Schedule Frequency
dropdown.
bb.. To determine the time the data stream refreshes, select the Hour from the dropdown.
cc.. To define the number of days that you want to allow for span days, select the Statistic Span Days
from the dropdown. For example, you select 10 days and your sliding window is defined for 30 days.
When you run the report, you see three different files, each showing 10 days.
dd.. To define the number of days back that you want to retrieve data whenever the data stream is
processed, starting from yesterday, select the Sliding Window from the dropdown.
55.. To disable data refresh for a stream, select the stream, and disable the stream in the status.
Define Data Stream Attributes
You can define or modify the data stream attributes, including custom attributes and channels.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To define data steam attributes: Admin
408

=== PAGE 413 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
11.. Navigate to the Connect & Mix tab.
22.. Expand Data Streams, and then expand Data Streams List.
33.. Create a data stream or edit one.
44.. At the bottom of the Data Stream page, click Advanced.
55.. Next to Data Stream Attributes, click Edit.
66.. To classify the data by attributes, enter custom attributes.
77.. Select the channel all the data coming through this data stream is derived from. You can also add a
channel, or edit an existing one.
Data Load Modes
When Marketing Cloud Intelligence receives new data, it checks whether the dates contained in the file
are new or if they overlap with a previous file that was processed. If the dates are new, the information is
added to the data stream. If the dates are already accounted for, the specified load mode determines
how the new data is displayed.
These load modes are available.
•
Replace—Overwrites the existing data with the new data based on overlapping dates. This mode is the
default, and the most commonly used.
•
Upsert—Inserts the new data by updating the main entity keys that exist in previous files. New main
entity keys are inserted as new rows of data.
•
Incremental—Adds the new data alongside the old data.
•
Total Replace—Deletes the existing data every time data is ingested.
Apply a Data Load Mode to Your Data Stream
Configure how new data updates the existing data in the data stream.
Incremental Data Load Mode
If you want to add new data alongside the old data, use the incremental data load mode. With this
mode, the new file supplements the old measurement data.
Use Cases for Incremental Load Mode
Refer to the these use cases when using incremental load mode.
Upsert Data Load Mode
The upsert data load mode inserts new data by updating main entity keys that exist in previous files.
With this mode, two actions are performed: update and insert. Measurement data linked to main
entity keys that exist in the previous file is updated, and then new main entity keys are inserted as new
rows of data.
Apply a Data Load Mode to Your Data Stream
Configure how new data updates the existing data in the data stream.
409

=== PAGE 414 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To specify a load mode: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams, and then select Data Streams List.
22.. Create a data stream or edit one.
33.. At the bottom of the Data Stream page, click Advanced.
44.. Under Load Mode, select the mode.
The default option is Replace.
55.. Save your work.
Incremental Data Load Mode
If you want to add new data alongside the old data, use the incremental data load mode. With this
mode, the new file supplements the old measurement data.
Use the Incremental data load mode only for certain use cases. Before selecting the Incremental mode,
consult your account manager.
These tables show what happens when using Incremental mode.
Existing data
410

=== PAGE 415 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Uploaded file
The blue cells indicate data that differs from the existing data.
After Incremental mode is applied
The purple cells indicate incremented data.
For the existing main entity keys, the measurement data is incremented to the values included in the
uploaded file. For example, the measurement values for media buy keys MB1 and MB3 were
incremented, even though the number of impressions for MB3 hadn’t changed. The main entity key,
MB4, was also inserted.
To determine whether to increment or insert a row, these items are considered:
•
Data’s date
•
Main entity key
•
Entities that are linked to the main entity key in a many-to-many connection
Use Cases for Incremental Load Mode
Refer to the these use cases when using incremental load mode.
You’re limited on the number of reports that you
can build for a campaign. For example, you can
generate only one campaign per report, so you
Use Case 1 can’t build a report that contains all your active
campaigns. Rather than build a separate data
stream for each campaign, use Incremental load
mode and schedule multiple reports to be
411

=== PAGE 416 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
delivered to the same data stream.
You want to do a one-time upload of a large file.
Use Case 2 You could push the file to the data stream’s FTP or
you could split the file to upload 40 MB at a time.
With site-served data, you might receive separate
data templates from each publisher. You could
aggregate all the data manually into one data file
Use Case 3
and upload with the Replace based on Date
option, or you could upload each publisher file
individually with Incremental load mode.
Upsert Data Load Mode
The upsert data load mode inserts new data by updating main entity keys that exist in previous files. With
this mode, two actions are performed: update and insert. Measurement data linked to main entity keys
that exist in the previous file is updated, and then new main entity keys are inserted as new rows of data.
These tables show what happens when using Upsert mode.
Existing data
Uploaded file
Blue cells represent data different from the existing data.
After Upsert load mode is applied
Green cells represent updated data, while orange cells represent new keys that were inserted into the
412

=== PAGE 417 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
data.
For the keys existing in the platform, the measurement data updates to the values included in the recent
file that was uploaded. For example, the measurement values for Media Buy Keys NO1 and NO3 were
updated. New keys were inserted to the data, for example Media Buy Key NO4.
To determine whether to update or insert a row, these items are considered:
•
The data's date
•
The Main Entity key
•
The entities that are linked to the Main Entity key in a many to many connection
Data Load Rules
You can use Data Load rules to filter out unwanted data before you upload it to Marketing Cloud
Intelligence. Create a load rule to set the criteria for the data that you want to upload. Then apply that
rule to a data stream, and then apply a rule to filter out data before it’s loaded. For example, you want to
upload data from your latest campaign, but due to an input error, the campaign dates are incorrect in
your spreadsheet. Rather than create another spreadsheet, you can create a rule that tells Marketing
Cloud Intelligence to ignore this campaign’s data.
Create a Load Rule
Data load rules filter out unwanted data before you upload data to Marketing Cloud Intelligence. After
you create load rules, they can be applied to data streams.
Add Load Rules to a Data Stream
Add load rules to a data steam to filter out unwanted data.
Create a Load Rule
Data load rules filter out unwanted data before you upload data to Marketing Cloud Intelligence. After
you create load rules, they can be applied to data streams.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To define a load mode: Admin
11.. Navigate to the Connect & Mix tab.
22.. Expand Data Streams, and then expand Data Streams List.
33.. Expand Data Load Rules.
44.. Click Add New.
55.. In the General section, add this information:
Name Name your load rule.
413

=== PAGE 418 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Select the matching action to use. These match
types are available: Include Rows – Only data
that matches the dimension values defined in
the filter is uploaded. Delete Measurements –
Match Action
Measurements are removed from the data
according to the filter. Fail the Entire Load – Any
new raw file that meets the criteria doesn’t
upload.
Enter a description to describe what the load rule
Description
does.
Enter a data range so that only data that meets
Date Range
the date range is added to the data stream.
Exclude rows without measurement data. If a
Filter Rows Without Measurement Data
row contains “0” or “null”, it isn’t uploaded.
66.. In the filters area, define the criteria. (If filters exist, they appear here and can be modified.)
77.. To create a new filter, click Add Filter.
Define the filter’s details. For example, to exclude a specific campaign, set Campaign Name as the
dimension, choose Not Equals, and enter the campaign name.
Note Filters are not case-sensitive .
88.. Save your work.
Add Load Rules to a Data Stream
Add load rules to a data steam to filter out unwanted data.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To apply or create load rules: Admin
11.. Navigate to the Connect & Mix tab.
22.. Expand Data Streams, and then expand Data Streams List.
33.. Create a data stream or edit an existing one.
44.. At the bottom of the Data Stream page, click Advanced.
55.. Scroll to the Load Rules section.
66.. Select a load rule from the dropdown or create one.
414

=== PAGE 419 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Apply Parent-Child Relationships to Share Attributes Across Data Streams
To share dimensional values across data streams, you can create parent-child relationships.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create parent-child relationships: Admin
11.. Navigate to the Connect & Mix tab.
22.. Expand Data Streams, and then expand Data Streams List.
33.. Create a data stream or edit one.
44.. At the bottom of the Data Stream page, click Advanced.
55.. Scroll to the Parent Child section.
66.. From the dropdown, select a parent data stream.
77.. Define how to update data.
Update existing mapped attributes across all
data streams in the parent-child data pool. The
Update Attributes
update occurs based on matching entity keys
each time data is ingested.
The data stream’s mapped attributes and media
buy, campaign, and site hierarchy are updated
Inherit Attributes and Hierarchy across other data streams in the parent-child
data pool. The update occurs based on matching
entity keys each time data is ingested.
Update the existing mapped attributes and
media buy, campaign, and site hierarchy across
Update Attributes and Hierarchy all data streams in the parent-child data pool.
The update occurs based on matching entity keys
each time data is ingested.
Note These permissions replace the previous checkboxes: Update Entities’ Attributes When
They Change and Override Dimension Hierarchies.
Define Additional Settings to a Data Stream
Define additional settings to your data stream, such as ignore empty rows, execute only when part of a
workflow and more. The settings are dynamic according to the data stream type you’re creating or
editing.
415

=== PAGE 420 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create or edit a data stream: Admin
11.. Navigate to the Connect & Mix tab.
22.. Expand Data Streams and then expand Data Streams List.
33.. Create a data stream or edit an existing one.
44.. At the bottom of the Data Stream page, click Advanced.
55.. Scroll to the More Options section.
Here are the options for defining a TotalConnect data stream:
Overrides media buy, campaign, and site entity
keys every time new data is loaded. (This option
Override Media Buy Hierarchy
appears only if the Media Buy entity is included in
the data stream type.)
Ignores rows that don’t contain measurement
Ignore empty rows
data.
Converts numerical values according to how
Use account culture settings
they’re defined at the account level.
Runs the data stream as part of a workflow, not
Execute only as part of a workflow
individually.
Sets a wildcard to instruct the data stream which
Wildcard Match in Compressed File file to pick from the archive. (Use an asterisk (*) to
pick the first file.)
Here are the options for defining an API data stream:
Overrides media buy, campaign, and site entity
keys every time new data is loaded. (This option
Override Media Buy Hierarchy
appears only if the Media Buy entity is included in
the data stream type. )
Ignores rows that don’t contain measurement
Ignore empty rows
data.
Runs the data stream as part of a workflow, not
Execute only as part of a workflow
individually.
Pulls the most recent API data available, retrieving
data with 0 lag days. Depending on the time of
Include today’s data in retrieval
day that the data is pulled, you can receive an
incomplete data set for today’s date. (This option
416

=== PAGE 421 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
doesn’t appear with all API connectors.)
Only update dimensions Applies when your data includes only dimensions.
Data Stream Control Center
The Data Stream Control Center is a dashboard that centralizes data stream management into a single
view. You can assess stream status, evaluate data quality, and identify ingestion issues. Get actionable
insights for improved data hygiene and row management. The Data Stream Control Center is
automatically filtered to show data for Today. To view the Data Stream Control Center dashboard, in the
Connect & Mix tab, expand the Control Center tab.
11.. Enabled Data Streams by Status: View the total number of data streams processed in the past 24
hours, broken down by status.
aa.. Standby—no retrieval method or scheduled hour to run.
bb.. In Progress—data streams currently being processed.
cc.. Successful—data streams that processed successfully.
dd.. Failed—data streams that were unable to process.
22.. Row Usage: View a breakdown of the rows in your workspace.
aa.. Added—total number of rows added to a workspace today.
bb.. Used—number of rows in use in the workspace.
33.. Insights: When new insights are available, the Insights button is blue. There are several types of
insights, for example:
aa.. Disabled Data Streams—a data stream was disabled by the platform in the past three days.
bb.. The size or number of rows in this file is close to exceeding the permitted size—oversized files will fail
to process.
cc.. Data streams that didn’t retrieve new files—After seven days of processing this stream, the stream
didn’t retrieve or receive new files for two consecutive days.
44.. Enabled Data Stream Status by Source: Quickly view all the connected data sources in the workspace
and their processing status over the past 24 hours.
aa.. Standby—no retrieval method or scheduled hour to run.
bb.. In Progress—data streams currently being processed.
cc.. Successful—data streams that processed successfully.
dd.. Failed—data streams that were unable to process.
55.. Data Streams Scheduled to Process Heat Map: The heat map displays the number of data streams
scheduled to run or that have run, broken down by hour. The data displayed is for the past 24 hours.
Only data streams with a scheduling hour appear in the heat map table.
417

=== PAGE 422 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
66.. Failed Data Streams by Day: Data filtered on statistics processed in the last seven days (including
today). Hovering over each day shows the total number of data streams that failed. You can filter the
widget based on the data source. To see additional information, hover over the bar chart.
aa.. View Error type—click to show the total number of data streams grouped by error type for this day.
bb.. View in Data Stream List—click to redirect to the data stream list. The list is filtered on the data
streams that failed on this specific day.
77.. Usage Forecast: The number of rows added to your workspace over the last six months and a row
usage forecast for the next three months.
Data Stream List
View, manage, and create data streams from the Data Stream List, in the Connect & Mix tab.
From the Data Stream List you can:
•
View and manage data streams in your workspace, for example edit, process, and delete data streams
•
Create data streams.
•
View additional data stream information such as, source, status, and last run time.
•
View the execution history, statistics, and mapping information.
•
Apply additional actions such as, export statistics and modify the source file path.
•
Use the filters to narrow your search and get results with minimal processing time.
418

=== PAGE 423 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Manage Data Streams
After you create data streams, they appear in the data streams list. Here you can create new data
streams, edit existing data streams, view history logs, create templates, and more.
Prioritize Processing Tasks
Use the processing queue to prioritize your data stream processing tasks. With the processing queue,
you can drag an urgent task to the top of the queue to prioritize it over other tasks. In the processing
queue, a task is a collection of data streams with the same date range, triggered to process together.
By default, all scheduled tasks, regardless of their date range, are grouped as one task that takes
precedence over any manually triggered tasks. The Processing Queue doesn’t determine the order in
which processing tasks are executed, and it doesn’t guarantee that prioritized data streams are
completed first. Rather, the Priority Queue ensures that the prioritized task receives priority if any tasks
compete for the same resources. However, if the tasks don’t compete for the same resources, the tasks
can be processed simultaneously. Admins can now process data for up to 365 days back, directly from
the platform without opening a support ticket.
Manage Data Streams
After you create data streams, they appear in the data streams list. Here you can create new data
streams, edit existing data streams, view history logs, create templates, and more.
Apply Changes to Data Streams
You have multiple options to make changes to the data that’s pulled into your data stream. Choose the
option that fits your use case the best.
Delete Data from Data Streams
When you delete data from a data stream in your workspace within the Delete Data tab, only the
measurements are deleted. The dimension values associated with the deleted data aren’t deleted nor
are the classification data, dimension-only data, CRM entities, and overarching entities. To delete all
data from a data stream, remove the data stream from the Data Stream List.
Apply Changes to Data Streams
You have multiple options to make changes to the data that’s pulled into your data stream. Choose the
option that fits your use case the best.
Update Data Manually
You can edit raw measurement data for specific data in a data stream. Dimension data can’t be edited
and remains as is. Also, dimension values appear as they do in the raw data. If you made changes in
the Dimension Explorer, you don’t see those changes here.
Re-run and Recreate Data Streams
When you make changes to data streams, for the changes to take effect, sometimes you must rerun
some of your data or recreate your data stream. Other times, such as when the changes only apply to
data going forward, all it takes is saving the data stream.
419

=== PAGE 424 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Update Data Manually
You can edit raw measurement data for specific data in a data stream. Dimension data can’t be edited
and remains as is. Also, dimension values appear as they do in the raw data. If you made changes in the
Dimension Explorer, you don’t see those changes here.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To edit a data stream: Admin
11.. Navigate to the Connect & Mix tab.
22.. Expand Data Streams, and then expand Data Streams List.
33.. Select the data stream that you want to modify.
44.. From the toolbar, click More, and then select Manual Data Update.
55.. Select the date that you want to edit data for.
66.. Go to the row where measurement data exists and enter a new value.
77.. Click Done.
When editing measurement data manually, the platform deletes the updated row from the original data
stream and creates a new data stream. This data stream doesn’t appear in the Data Streams List, but it’s
linked to the original data stream. You can view the manual updates in the data stream’s log under
Manual Update Logs.
Re-run and Recreate Data Streams
When you make changes to data streams, for the changes to take effect, sometimes you must rerun
some of your data or recreate your data stream. Other times, such as when the changes only apply to
data going forward, all it takes is saving the data stream.
The Recreate & Rerun dialog appears whenever you make changes to existing data streams that affect
data. It includes a built-in logic that can help you choose the correct option based on your needs:
Recreate, Rerun, or Save. The relevant options appear based on the changes that you make to your data
stream.
Save
Use Save whenever you apply minor changes that don’t require data reprocessing. For example, if you
edit a data stream attribute, or if you add a data load rule that is only applied to new data.
420

=== PAGE 425 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Rerun
The Rerun option is available when dealing with data stream changes that don’t require data processing,
such as standard mapping changes or applying load rules. This option has two possible scenarios.
If you want your changes to be applied to a portion of your existing data, choose Within a selected data
range or Uploaded within a selected date range from the dropdown first (1). Then select the relevant
date range from the date picker (2), and click Rerun (3).
421

=== PAGE 426 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
If you choose this option, your changes apply to the selected data and any data processed going forward.
If you want the changes to apply to all the data in the data stream, choose Apply to all existing data (1),
and then click Rerun (2). If you choose this option, your changes apply to all existing data in the data
stream and any data processed going forward.
Recreate
The Recreate option is used after you make critical changes to your data stream where recreation is
inevitable.
These changes can be split into two groups:
•
Changes in the mapping of the keys, such as the media buy key and a campaign key, or the day field of
a data stream: These mapping changes allow you to save the data stream and only apply them to data
going forward, or to apply the changes to existing data, you can recreate the data stream.
•
Data stream type change, adding a stream to a parent-child pool, adding a transformer or changing a
dimensions-only stream to a stream with measurements: These changes only allow you to recreate the
data stream without the option to save it.
When you recreate a data stream, you have two options. The first option is to only apply the changes you
made to a portion of your existing data within a selected date range and any data going forward, similar
to the Rerun option.
422

=== PAGE 427 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Note If you recreate partial data based on the selected date range, you lose the rest of your data.
Conversely, if you use the Rerun option, the rest of your data remains unchanged and all the
changes you just made aren’t applied to it.
The second option is to recreate the data stream along with all the data it contains. In this case, all
changes apply to all existing data and any data processed going forward.
Delete Data from Data Streams
When you delete data from a data stream in your workspace within the Delete Data tab, only the
measurements are deleted. The dimension values associated with the deleted data aren’t deleted nor are
the classification data, dimension-only data, CRM entities, and overarching entities. To delete all data
from a data stream, remove the data stream from the Data Stream List.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To delete data: Admins with Allow Delete Data permissions
In order to delete data, you must first enable the Allow Delete Data permission in the user’s settings. All
Admins who have manage user permissions can enable delete data for all admin users in their account.
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, under Data Streams, click Delete Data.
22.. To delete specific data streams click Selected data streams and select the data streams from the
dropdown or select All data streams
33.. Select the date range that you want to delete data from.
44.. Click Delete Selected Data.
55.. (Optional) Users can delete any unused dimension values and orphan keys that aren’t deleted when
you delete data.
aa.. On the Connect & Mix tab, select Dimension Explorer.
bb.. Select the entity that you want to delete dimensions or orphan keys from, and click Show Orphan
423

=== PAGE 428 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Keys.
cc.. Click Delete.
Prioritize Processing Tasks
Use the processing queue to prioritize your data stream processing tasks. With the processing queue, you
can drag an urgent task to the top of the queue to prioritize it over other tasks. In the processing queue,
a task is a collection of data streams with the same date range, triggered to process together. By default,
all scheduled tasks, regardless of their date range, are grouped as one task that takes precedence over
any manually triggered tasks. The Processing Queue doesn’t determine the order in which processing
tasks are executed, and it doesn’t guarantee that prioritized data streams are completed first. Rather, the
Priority Queue ensures that the prioritized task receives priority if any tasks compete for the same
resources. However, if the tasks don’t compete for the same resources, the tasks can be processed
simultaneously. Admins can now process data for up to 365 days back, directly from the platform
without opening a support ticket.
Prioritize a Task in the Processing Queue
Prioritize your data stream processing tasks by organizing them in the queue based on priority. Place
the task at the top of the queue for the highest priority. Priority is allocated based on the placement of
the tasks in the queue.
F A Q - Data Stream Prioritization Queue
Here are some questions that may come up when setting priority for your processing tasks.
Prioritize a Task in the Processing Queue
Prioritize your data stream processing tasks by organizing them in the queue based on priority. Place the
task at the top of the queue for the highest priority. Priority is allocated based on the placement of the
tasks in the queue.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To prioritize a task: Admin
Note Previously, if you needed to process over 180 days of data you needed to open a support
ticket. You can now process 365 days without having to open a support ticket. For more information
click here to view a short video.
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab (1), from the Data Stream List window (2), click the Processing Queue icon
(3).
424

=== PAGE 429 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
22.. Click the reorder icon, drag the task to the top of the queue for the highest priority, or lower down on
the queue based on the task's priority, and then click Save.
33.. To view all the data streams being processed and their progress in your task, click the expand icon on a
task tile.
44.. To remove a specific data stream from a task, expand the task tile, hover over the stream, and click the
remove icon.
55.. To cancel a task, click the settings icon on the task tile and then click Cancel Task.
66.. Completed tasks remain in the queue for a while and then disappear so that you can see the current
tasks in progress.
F A Q - Data Stream Prioritization Queue
Here are some questions that may come up when setting priority for your processing tasks.
Q: Why is my prioritized task still processing while another task has already been completed?
A: A prioritized task at the top of the queue can take longer to process than a task lower down in the
queue. If a higher priority task doesn't require the same resource as another task, both tasks are
processed, and the lower priority task can run faster than a high priority task. The Priority Queue doesn't
determine the order in which tasks are completed. The task's priority only determines what happens
when two tasks require the same resource.
Q: Is it possible to precede manually triggered data streams over scheduled tasks?
A: No. Scheduled processing for data streams is prioritized over manual processing to ensure that they
don’t interfere with each other.
Q: Can I change the priorities of data streams within a task?
A: No. You can prioritize tasks as a whole, but you can’t prioritize specific data streams within a task.
Data Stream Templates in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use data stream templates to create a mapping template that you can replicate to create data streams.
Store the template on the workspace or account level. You can share data stream templates between
workspaces and accounts. The data stream template saves formulas used in the original data stream.
425

=== PAGE 430 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use data stream templates when you create an API connector and the API connection requires custom
formulas that are used in more than one data stream. We recommend creating a template specifically for
that API connector. Use this template when you create a new API data stream of the same source.
Create a Data Stream Template
You can create a data stream template for a TotalConnect data stream or an API data stream. To create
an API data stream you must have at least one template for the source in your workspace.
Share a Data Stream Template
Share data stream templates across accounts and workspaces.
Apply a Data Stream Template
Apply data stream templates to create a data stream.
Create a Data Stream Template
You can create a data stream template for a TotalConnect data stream or an API data stream. To create
an API data stream you must have at least one template for the source in your workspace.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a data stream template: Admin
11.. From the Connect and Mix tab, select Data Streams, and then Data Streams List.
22.. To create a template for an existing data stream, select the data stream, click More and select Create
Template.
33.. To create a template while creating a new data stream, click the settings next to the Automate Data
Refresh button and select Create Template.
44.. Name your template. The template name must be different from the data stream name.
55.. Choose whether the data stream template is visible in the account level or just the workspace level.
66.. Click OK.
Your template appears in the Data Stream Templates list. You can view, edit, or share your template.
Share a Data Stream Template
Share data stream templates across accounts and workspaces.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To share a data stream template: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams, and then Data Stream Templates.
22.. Select the template you want to share.
426

=== PAGE 431 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
33.. Click Share and select the account and workspace.
44.. Click Save.
Apply a Data Stream Template
Apply data stream templates to create a data stream.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To apply a data stream template: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams and then Data Stream List.
22.. Click Create New, and then click TotalConnect.
33.. Click Use Template, and select the template you want to use.
44.. You can either upload your source file or continue without one:
aa.. To upload a file, click Browse or drag your file. You can preview your source file, then continue to the
mapping stage and advanced settings. The mapping and settings are based on your template. You
can edit if needed.
bb.. If you decide to upload your file at a later time, move to the mapping stage. You can map your
source fields to the Marketing Cloud Intelligence data fields. You can upload your data at any time.
Since you didn’t upload data initially, the first file you upload to the data stream serves as the data
stream’s source file.
55.. Continue setting up your data stream as required.
See Also
Create Data Streams in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
427

=== PAGE 432 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Data Mapping Visualizer
Use the Data Mapping Visualizer tool to view an animated display of the mapped data in your
Intelligence workspace. Data Mapping Visualizer lets you easily view and search your mapped data.
You can view the mapping structure of an entire setup—external source, data stream and source fields, or
drill down to see your mapped Marketing Cloud Intelligence data model—dimensions and
measurements. Data Mapping Visualizer is helpful when you want to quickly identify the source fields
from your sources and data stream types that are mapped to a measurement or dimension.
Use the Data Mapping Visualizer
Use the Data Mapping Visualizer tool to view an animated display of mapped data in your Marketing
Cloud Intelligence workspace.
View Your Mapped Source Data
View your external mapped source data in the mapping visualizer using a hierarchy structure.
Group External Data in the Mapping Visualizer
The Mapping visualizer groups the data in the External Data column by Source Type by default. If you
have defined custom attributes, you can group by an attribute instead.
View Your Mapped Dimensions and Measurements
View your mapped dimensions and measurements in the My Data Model column by expanding the
entities and drilling down to view the mapped dimensions and measurements.
Using the Data Mapping Visualizer In Dashboard Pages
You can view the source of mapped dimensions & measurements with the Data Mapping Visualizer
directly in your dashboards.
Use the Data Mapping Visualizer
Use the Data Mapping Visualizer tool to view an animated display of mapped data in your Marketing
Cloud Intelligence workspace.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use the data mapping visualizer: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Data Streams, and then Data Mapping Visualizer.
428

=== PAGE 433 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
22.. The Data Mapping Visualizer has two columns
External Data where the Source data is grouped.
where the Marketing Cloud Intelligence entities
My Data Model
are grouped.
33.. Hover over the entity to see a visual display of how the entities are connected in the other column
based on the mapping configurations. For example, hover over an External Data entity to see the
connected fields highlighted in the My Data model column.
44.. To keep a connection with a specific entity, click the selected entity. The selected entity stays
highlighted when you continue scrolling. For example, when you’re scrolling through a long list on the
Data Model column or if you want to compare your mapped data to another file.
55.. When an entity is selected you can view the contents of a mapping formula at the lowest level of the
drill-down on both columns. For example, if you drill down to the source field level on the External
Data column and the Data Model column you can see the mapping formulas. A formula icon appears
when a source field is mapped using a mapping formula. To view the mapping formula contents, click
the icon.
View Your Mapped Source Data
View your external mapped source data in the mapping visualizer using a hierarchy structure.
For example, to see how external data is mapped, you can drill down on the External Data column and
see the hierarchy— external source, data stream name, and the source field name.
429

=== PAGE 434 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Clicking a source displays all the data streams created for that source.
Clicking a data stream displays the source fields that are mapped within that data stream. You can click
the path at the top of the visualizer to go back to a specific source or stream.
Group External Data in the Mapping Visualizer
The Mapping visualizer groups the data in the External Data column by Source Type by default. If you
have defined custom attributes, you can group by an attribute instead.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use the Data Mapping Visualizer: Admin
For example, if your workspace has a large number of TotalConnect data streams that are ingesting data
from different sources, you can group by an attribute to filter the view.
11.. Click the menu icon and select the custom attribute you want to group by.
22.. If you group by a custom attribute that wasn’t configured for the source, the source is grouped under a
value named Empty.
View Your Mapped Dimensions and Measurements
View your mapped dimensions and measurements in the My Data Model column by expanding the
entities and drilling down to view the mapped dimensions and measurements.
430

=== PAGE 435 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use the data mapping visualizer: Admin
11.. To expand an entity in the My Data Model column (1), click the expand icon (2) on the entity you want
to view.
22.. You can view the dimensions and measurements the entity contains. For example, the Campaign
entity contains two dimensions, Campaign Name and Campaign Key (3).
33.. To identify the source fields from all sources and data stream types mapped to a certain Marketing
Cloud Intelligence dimension, hover over the entity and click the square icon. This can be useful when
exploring the data model within a given workspace. While focusing on an entity, the display freezes
and the External Data column displays sources that are mapped to the selected dimension.
Using the Data Mapping Visualizer In Dashboard Pages
You can view the source of mapped dimensions & measurements with the Data Mapping Visualizer
directly in your dashboards.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use Visualizer in dashboard pages: Admin or Power User
For example, you want to add a specific dimension or measurement to a dashboard page, and there are
several fields with similar names. The Data Mapping Visualizer helps you see the source of the field so
you can select the correct field. You can also use the Data Mapping Visualizer in the dashboard to find
the source of a dimension or measurement added to your widget.
11.. In the Visualize tab, add a new widget, or click an existing widget.
22.. In edit mode, click the data tab to add or change data and then click the + icon.
33.. Search or select the measurement or dimension you want to know the source for.
44.. Hover over the relevant dimension or measurement and click the data mapping icon.
Workflows in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use workflows to execute data streams, reports, and actions in your workspace. For example, create a
workflow to generate a report after specific data streams are processed.
Create a Workflow in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a workflow to set the order of when to execute data streams, reports, and actions. You can also
chain workflows together so that the end of the workflow initiates the next workflow.
431

=== PAGE 436 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Execute a Workflow in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can execute a workflow manually, even if it has a defined schedule. You can run up to 10
workflows per hour.
Troubleshoot a Workflow in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
If a workflow fails, view the log file to see what caused the failure. A workflow can run for 6 hours. If
the workflow doesn’t finish executing in that time, it times out.
Create a Workflow in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a workflow to set the order of when to execute data streams, reports, and actions. You can also
chain workflows together so that the end of the workflow initiates the next workflow.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a workflow: Admin
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, select Workflows.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Name the workflow, and select Enable.
44.. To run the data streams only after the workflow is triggered, select Convert all Data Streams to run
only in Workflows. For example, if a data stream receives a file via delivery information, the file
processes after the workflow triggers.
55.. To schedule the workflow, set the frequency and time.
66.. In the Flow area, double-click an empty space.
77.. Select the type of entity to include in the workflow: data stream, action, report, system event, or
another workflow.
88.. Select which entities to include in the workflow. An entity can be in multiple workflows.
99.. Click Add.
1100.. To create more workflows, repeat the same process.
1111.. To connect between workflows, drag the cursor from the first workflow to the one you’re connecting it
to.
By default, if an entity in a workflow fails, the entire workflow doesn’t run. To enable the workflow to
continue even if an entity fails, hover over the entity, click Settings, and select Continue workflow on
failure.
1122.. Click Save & Execute.
Execute a Workflow in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can execute a workflow manually, even if it has a defined schedule. You can run up to 10 workflows
per hour.
432

=== PAGE 437 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To execute a workflow: Admin
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, select Workflows.
22.. Select the workflow to execute, and click Process.
33.. To stop the execution, click Stop Run.
44.. To restart the workflow, click Status and select Enable.
Troubleshoot a Workflow in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
If a workflow fails, view the log file to see what caused the failure. A workflow can run for 6 hours. If the
workflow doesn’t finish executing in that time, it times out.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To troubleshoot a workflow: Admin
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, select Workflows.
22.. Select the failed workflow, and click Show Run Status.
A window shows the run status of each element in the workflow. The information is updated while the
workflow runs
33.. To investigate why a workflow failed to run, click Log. Each instance has its own ID.
Transformation Rules
Use transformation rules to set values to a specified attribute, based on a set of defined criteria. The rules
can be set at the level of the entity key or name. Transformation rules are most effective when the entity
key or name has a consistent naming convention.
Note This feature is a legacy feature and is only available if you’ve used it in the past. It’s highly
recommended you use the Harmonization Center instead.
For more information, see Harmonize Data with the Harmonization Center.
Create Transformation Rules
Create a transformation rule to set a value of a specific attribute, for example whenever the Campaign
Key is set to 1234, the Campaign Type is set to Search.
Set a Rules Method for Transformation Rules
433

=== PAGE 438 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Rules run according to the Rules Method, which determines the type of the data the rules apply to. By
default, the platform uses the Run Rules on New Data Only method, running rules on all the data
uploaded to the workspace after the rule is created. The Rules Method affects all the workspace's
transformation rules.
Create Transformation Rules
Create a transformation rule to set a value of a specific attribute, for example whenever the Campaign
Key is set to 1234, the Campaign Type is set to Search.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create transformation rules: Admin
Note This feature is a legacy feature and is only available if you’ve used it in the past. It’s highly
recommended you use the Harmonization Center instead.
Note Transformation rules aren’t case-sensitive.
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, select Harmonization Center, and then Transformation Rules.
22.. Click New.
33.. In the General section enter the rule’s name.
44.. To save the rule and not activate it, clear Enabled.
55.. Select the dimension the rule is based on. The configuration options change according to the type you
select.
66.. If you have several rules that apply to the same field, set the order to determine which rule runs first.
Create a rule. For example, when campaign name equals 1234.
aa.. Select the dimension the rule is based on.
bb.. Set the operator, for example contains.
cc.. Enter the value. Click Add.
77.. Set the configuration settings to tell the platform what to do when the field is found and how to
change its value.
88.. Select the dimension the extracted values are affiliated to.
99.. Set the value. There are two options.
To: Sets a static value. For example, when the data stream name contains 123, set the campaign name
to search.
Extract Value From Pattern: Extracts the value from a specific position in a pattern. For example,
when the campaign name equals 123, set the campaign name to the value that’s extracted from the
second position of the data stream dimension.
434

=== PAGE 439 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
aa.. Select the dimension the rule is extracting from.
bb.. Enter the delimiter.
cc.. Enter the position you’re extracting from.
1100.. Save your work.
Set a Rules Method for Transformation Rules
Rules run according to the Rules Method, which determines the type of the data the rules apply to. By
default, the platform uses the Run Rules on New Data Only method, running rules on all the data
uploaded to the workspace after the rule is created. The Rules Method affects all the workspace's
transformation rules.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To set the rules method: Admin
Note This feature is a legacy feature and is only available if you’ve used it in the past. It’s highly
recommended you use the Harmonization Center instead.
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, select Harmonization Center, and then Transformation Rules.
22.. From the toolbar, click Rules Method.
33.. Define what happens the next time rules are executed.
44.. To set all rules to run immediately, from the toolbar click Run Rules.
Transformation Groups
Transformation groups allow you to classify attributes of entities, such as sites, campaigns, or products,
so you can filter information.
When creating a transformation group, you choose which entity instances you’re including. These entities
can be grouped:
•
Campaigns
•
Conversion tags
•
Products
•
Sites
•
Social elements
•
Web analytics sites
Create a Transformation Group
Create a transformation group to classify entities together.
Transformation Group Use Cases
Transformation groups are used in different ways, for example to filter by a group of campaigns. These
435

=== PAGE 440 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Uploading Data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
use cases show how to set up specific transformation groups and their results.
Create a Transformation Group
Create a transformation group to classify entities together.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a transformation group: Admin
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, select Harmonization Center, and then Transformation Rules.
22.. Click New. Name your group and select the Group Type.
The Group Type determines the values you can choose from.
33.. From the list of values on the left, select the values you’re adding to the new group.
44.. To add them highlight the values and then click the right arrow.
55.. To remove values from your group, highlight them and then click the left arrow.
66.. Save your work.
Transformation Group Use Cases
Transformation groups are used in different ways, for example to filter by a group of campaigns. These
use cases show how to set up specific transformation groups and their results.
Campaign Group
You can choose a number of different campaigns to be included under the Campaign Group:
"ADSERVER". Filtering on this Campaign Group displays all metrics relating to these campaigns as a
whole.
Group Setup
Results
Site Group
You can choose AOL-related sites to be included under the Site Group: "AOL". Filtering on this Site Group
displays all metrics related to these sites as a whole.
Group Setup
436

=== PAGE 441 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Results
Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Granular Data Center is a premium feature designed for ingesting raw data into the system. Due to this
data’s granularity, row count can be hundreds of millions or even billions of rows. As opposed to other
data stream types, usage and pricing don’t go by the row count but rather by terabytes of storage space.
Some examples of data types that work best with Granular Data Center data streams are keyword level
data, event level data, log data, and granular geodata.
Granular Data Center data streams create correlating tables of data pertaining to a workspace.
All data stored in the Granular Data Center is fully compliant with GDPR requirements and regulations.
The Granular Data Center is a premium feature. If you’re interested in purchasing, contact a Marketing
Cloud Intelligence representative.
If the Granular Data Center add-on is deprovisioned from an account, the following happens.
•
The Granular Data Center tab in the left pane doesn’t appear anymore.
Note System admins and above can still access the Granular Data Center for 90 days after
disabling the checkbox. After the 90 days are over, they can’t access it anymore.
•
Granular Data Center data streams and retrievals from the Granular Data Center stop running and fail.
•
Queries of the Granular Data Center data (from reports, widgets, or via API, including scheduled) stop
and fail.
Note System admins and above can still run SQL queries and exports for 90 days. After 90 days,
all Granular Data Center data streams are automatically deleted and all data is deleted.
When retrieving Granular Data Center data, be aware of these timeout limits:
•
Direct retrievals - 1 hour
•
SFMC granular data extensions - 2 hours
•
Retrieval from Granular Data Center into Granular Data Center - 40 minutes with a builder query, 1
hour with SQL query
•
DB retrievals - 30 minutes
Enable the Granular Data Center in a Workspace
Purchasing the Granular Data Center automatically enables it in the account. However, an admin must
enable it in the workspace. If it isn’t enabled, the Granular Data Center tab doesn’t appear.
View Granular Data Center Data
437

=== PAGE 442 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The Granular Data Center landing page summarizes all the Granular Data Center data streams created
in that workspace. View and manage ingested data, aggregations, extracted data, share data streams,
create queries, and more all from one main location.
Granular Data Center Data Stream Creation
Create a Granular Data Center data stream to ingest granular data, such as event level or keyword level
data.
Mapping Granular Data Center Data
If you uploaded a file or used a technical vendor to create a Granular Data Center data stream, you’re
redirected to a mapping preview screen. Here you can verify that your data has been identified
correctly, change mapping, add mapping formulas, and more. When data is uploaded to a Granular
Data Center data stream, a table is created. The table is dynamic according to the type of loaded data.
The type affects the data load options and behavior.
Querying Granular Data Centers
Query your Granular Data Centers to pull data from your workspace. You can also query a Granular
Data Center in another workspace through sharing. You can create a query manually with an SQL
editor or use the Query Builder for an all-click-no-code option. Convert a query from the query builder
into SQL to build onto the existing query or to better understand the parameters.
Visualizing Granular Data Center Data
The Entity-Relationship Diagram (ERD) displays a visual representation of all the tables and
connections between specific dimensions from within these tables. Each block represents an existing
table and contains a list of all the fields available within the table. The lines connecting tables also
depict connections between specific dimensions from the connected tables.
Sharing Granular Data Centers
You can share a Granular Data Center if it contains data that is relevant to other workspaces in the
same account.
Deleting Data from a Granular Data Center
To facilitate compliance with various data protection and privacy regulations, you can delete data from
a Granular Data Center.
Enable the Granular Data Center in a Workspace
Purchasing the Granular Data Center automatically enables it in the account. However, an admin must
enable it in the workspace. If it isn’t enabled, the Granular Data Center tab doesn’t appear.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To enable the Granular Data Center: Admin
11.. To the left side of the navigation bar, click the workspace name, and then click the workspace settings
gear icon.
22.. In the workspace settings menu clickPremium Features.
33.. Select Data Lake, and then click Save.
438

=== PAGE 443 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
View Granular Data Center Data
The Granular Data Center landing page summarizes all the Granular Data Center data streams created in
that workspace. View and manage ingested data, aggregations, extracted data, share data streams,
create queries, and more all from one main location.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To view Granular Data Center data: Admin
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, select Granular Data Center.
The Granular Data Center Overview page shows a visual and interactive view of all your Granular Data
Center data and tables.
22.. Hover over an area. For example, in the Ingested Data area, view which Granular Data Center data was
ingested and the number of bytes.
33.. View and manage shared Granular Data Centers and share Granular Data Centers directly from here.
44.. Create a Granular Data Center data stream, or view the total usage.
55.. Create a query, or go straight to the Granular Center ERD page.
66.. View which Granular Data Centers are retrieving TotalConnect, DirectConnect, and Granular Data
Center data streams.
Granular Data Center Data Stream Creation
Create a Granular Data Center data stream to ingest granular data, such as event level or keyword level
data.
There are three ways to pull data:
Select a file stored on your computer, and drop it
here. This uploaded file shows how data is
previewed and mapped before the data stream
Drag & Drop
and table are created within the Granular Data
Center. These file formats are supported: .csv, .tsv,
and .json
Retrieve data by selecting from a list of available
Technical Vendor vendors. Technical vendors are data storage
services such as DropBox and Amazon S3.
Retrieve data from a list of available platforms.
Marketing Vendor API Connection Marketing vendors are for retrieving data from
designated platforms such as Google ads and
439

=== PAGE 444 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Facebook ads. These API connectors differ from
regular Marketing Cloud Intelligence API
connectors. They’re capable of retrieving high-
volume granular data. Some of these connectors
are only available in the Marketplace. To see more
connectors, click Go to Marketplace for more
connectors.
Use a Technical Vendor to Create a Granular Data Center Data Stream
To create a Granular Data Center data stream, use a technical vendor. A technical vendor is a data
storage service, such as DropBox or Amazon S3. The process for defining the Granular Data Center
data stream is dynamic according to the vendor, so it’s possible that not every step listed is relevant.
Use a Marketing Vendor to Create a Granular Data Center Data Stream
Use a marketing vendor to pull in your granular data when creating a Granular Data Center data
stream. Marketing vendors are set up the same way as Marketing Cloud Intelligence API connectors,
but these connectors are big data compatible and work differently.
Use a Technical Vendor to Create a Granular Data Center Data Stream
To create a Granular Data Center data stream, use a technical vendor. A technical vendor is a data storage
service, such as DropBox or Amazon S3. The process for defining the Granular Data Center data stream is
dynamic according to the vendor, so it’s possible that not every step listed is relevant.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a Granular Data Center data stream: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select the Granular Data Center tab, and then Granular Data Center
Data Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Click Technical Vendors.
440

=== PAGE 445 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
44.. Select a vendor. For example, Google Cloud Storage.
55.. The delivery method is already selected, but you can select a different vendor here.
66.. To merge all the files that accumulate between retrievals into one large file, select Use Direct Retrieval
(1).
77.. If you choose Google Cloud Storage as your technical vendor, you also must provide a Private Key. For
more information, see Creating and managing service account keys.
Note When using Google Cloud Storage connector with Direct Retrieval the directory should NOT
include leading and trailing slashes, for example: /folder1/folder2/file.csv/ should be folder1/
folder2/file.csv
88.. If you’re using S3 as your technical vendor you can turn on the Assume an IAM Role toggle. You can
441

=== PAGE 446 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
use the IAM role when you don’t want to use the usual authentication method of providing an access
key and secret key. Instead, you can grant Marketing Cloud Intelligence access to assume a role
defined in your AWS account.
But first you must set up the role and make sure that the Marketing Cloud Intelligence account gets
the relevant permissions to assume this role. See Providing Access to AWS Accounts. Marketing Cloud
Intelligence’s AWS account ID is: 234641932592.
After you have access, define these details:
Assume an IAM Role Turn on to enable the assume role options (1).
IAM Role ARN Enter the IAM role that you’re assuming (2).
(Optional) If you set up access with an external
IAM Role External ID:
ID, add it here (3).
99.. Enter your credentials (2).
1100.. To delete the data after it downloads, select Delete After Download (3).
1111.. To retrieve only new files and not all files, select Retrieve Only New Files (4).
1122.. Define the frequency for when to retrieve data (5).
1133.. To change the mapping and customize the data, click Mapping. (See Mapping Data Lake Data for
442

=== PAGE 447 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
more information.)
1144.. To define advanced settings, click Advanced Settings. (See Advanced Settings in Marketing Cloud
Intelligence Streams for more information.)
Not all settings are relevant to Granular Data Center data streams, so some options don’t appear or are
disabled.
A new Granular Data Center data stream is created with all the correlating tables.
Direct Retrieval
Direct retrieval solves the bottlenecks that can occur when processing a large number of files in
between retrieval cycles. It also helps in managing the data stream’s execution log, which can be a
challenge when the number of files that accumulate between processing cycles is in the thousands.
Direct Retrieval
Direct retrieval solves the bottlenecks that can occur when processing a large number of files in between
retrieval cycles. It also helps in managing the data stream’s execution log, which can be a challenge when
the number of files that accumulate between processing cycles is in the thousands.
Direct retrieval takes all the files that accumulate between retrievals and merges them into one large file.
This process reduces the job queue into a single processing job, which makes the processing action
faster and easier to manage and maintain.
If you use this option, make sure that your files are of an “incremental nature.” Data from one file doesn’t
replace data in other files, but rather adds to the data in other files. For example, if you have the same
key in two separate files, both of the files’ rows appear in the merged file. When the file is uploaded to
the database, the measurements are summed together. If the accumulated files are supposed to replace
each other’s data, direct retrieval doesn’t work.
Note Direct retrieval is only available for Amazon S3, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Storage.
Use a Marketing Vendor to Create a Granular Data Center Data Stream
Use a marketing vendor to pull in your granular data when creating a Granular Data Center data stream.
Marketing vendors are set up the same way as Marketing Cloud Intelligence API connectors, but these
connectors are big data compatible and work differently.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a Granular Data Center data stream: Admin
These marketing vendors are supported:
•
Salesforce Marketing Cloud Granular
443

=== PAGE 448 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Adobe Analytics
•
Google Search Console
•
Google Analytics Custom
•
Google DFA Custom
•
Amazon Web Services
•
Facebook Ads Custom
•
Google AdWords Custom
•
Google DS Custom
•
Adobe Analytics Custom
To create a Granular Data Center data stream:
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Granular Data Center, and then Granular Data Center Data
Streams.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select Marketing Vendors.
44.. Select a marketing vendor from the list.
444

=== PAGE 449 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
55.. If you don’t see the vendor you’re using, click Go to Marketplace for more connectors and download it
there.
66.. Define the connector’s details.
77.. To change the mapping and customize the data, click Mapping. (See Mapping Data Lake Data for
more information.)
88.. To define advanced settings, click Advanced Settings. (See Advanced Settings in Marketing Cloud
Intelligence Streams for more information.)
Not all settings are relevant to Granular Data Center data streams, so some options don’t appear or are
disabled.
99.. Save your work.
A new Granular Data Center data stream is created with all the correlating tables.
Mapping Granular Data Center Data
If you uploaded a file or used a technical vendor to create a Granular Data Center data stream, you’re
redirected to a mapping preview screen. Here you can verify that your data has been identified correctly,
change mapping, add mapping formulas, and more. When data is uploaded to a Granular Data Center
data stream, a table is created. The table is dynamic according to the type of loaded data. The type
affects the data load options and behavior.
There are two types of data: dimension only and dimensions and measurements data.
In the mapping preview stage, if you exceed a certain number of columns, you must scroll to see all rows.
Granular data includes many rows and requires much scrolling. The Transpose button allows you to
transpose your columns so that they all become separate rows under one column. When you’re in
transpose mode you can’t see the actual data relating to these columns, only the column headers and
their formulas. You can still click the formula icon to edit the formula of a given header.
Configure the Granular Data Center Table
A Granular Data Center data stream creates a table automatically. The Granular Data Center table is
created within the database and holds the data uploaded by the respective data stream. When
querying the Granular Data Center using SQL, the tables are queried and visualized by the names
defined in the table. In the mapping screen, you can configure the table’s settings via the Configure
tab.
Apply a Header Transformer to a Granular Data Center Table
A header transformer customizes the header structure when headers aren’t available. If you leave the
table as is, the first row values appear as the column headers.
Add a Field
When you add more dimensions and measurements to the table, you add more columns. All column
names appear as display names in the table. The display names are also used to set the system names,
which are formatted using SQL standards.
445

=== PAGE 450 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Configure the Granular Data Center Table
A Granular Data Center data stream creates a table automatically. The Granular Data Center table is
created within the database and holds the data uploaded by the respective data stream. When querying
the Granular Data Center using SQL, the tables are queried and visualized by the names defined in the
table. In the mapping screen, you can configure the table’s settings via the Configure tab.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure the Granular Data Center table: Admin
By default the table name is the source file’s name. If you must change the table name, we recommend
that you do so before creating the data stream. Changing the name after creating the data stream forces
a reprocessing of the data stream’s log files.
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Granular Data Center, and then Granular Data Center Data
Streams.
22.. Create a Granular Data Center data stream, or edit an existing one.
33.. At the bottom of the Granular Data Center page, click Mapping (1).
44.. On the left-hand side of the page, go to Settings, and then select the Configure tab (2).
55.. To change the name of the table, click Name, and then enter a new name (3).
66.. Verify that the day is correct (4).
If the data only contains dimensions, this field is empty.
77.. Verify the partitioning is defined correctly and change if necessary (4). It’s recommended you use the
default settings.
By default, tables with measurements use daily partitioning, while tables with dimensions use no
partition. If you use the default, daily partitioning, one file is created for one day. However, the
querying may be slower since it needs to query different files depending on the date range.
446

=== PAGE 451 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
88.. In the Data Type section, make sure that all the retrieved dimensions and measurements are correct
(5).
99.. To validate, hover over the categories or the individual column names to highlight the respective fields
in the table.
aa.. To change the type, select a dimension or measurement, and then click Set Type.
bb.. All column names are automatically set as keys, which means the header is used in the
concatenation key generation. To set a dimension or measurement as key, select Set as Key.
Apply a Header Transformer to a Granular Data Center Table
A header transformer customizes the header structure when headers aren’t available. If you leave the
table as is, the first row values appear as the column headers.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To apply a header transformer: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Granular Data Center, and then Granular Data Center Data
Streams.
22.. Create a Granular Data Center data stream, or edit an existing one.
33.. At the bottom of the Granular Data Center page, click Mapping (1).
44.. On the left-hand side of the page, go to Settings, and then select the Advanced tab (2).
55.. Select Headers (3).
66.. If your file doesn’t have headers, and you don’t want the platform to choose the first row automatically
in the mapping process, select File has no headers.
77.. Click Done.
447

=== PAGE 452 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Add a Field
When you add more dimensions and measurements to the table, you add more columns. All column
names appear as display names in the table. The display names are also used to set the system names,
which are formatted using SQL standards.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To add a field to the Granular Data Center table: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Granular Data Center, and then Granular Data Center Data
Streams.
22.. Create a Granular Data Center data stream, or edit an existing one.
33.. At the bottom of the Granular Data Center page, click Mapping (1).
44.. In the table, click Add Field (2).
55.. Select Dimension or Measurement (3).
66.. Enter the column name.
77.. Create or edit a formula. For more information, see Use the Formula Editor to Map.
88.. Save your work.
Querying Granular Data Centers
Query your Granular Data Centers to pull data from your workspace. You can also query a Granular Data
Center in another workspace through sharing. You can create a query manually with an SQL editor or use
the Query Builder for an all-click-no-code option. Convert a query from the query builder into SQL to
448

=== PAGE 453 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
build onto the existing query or to better understand the parameters.
View Granular Data Center Queries
All saved queries appear in the Query Granular Data dialog. Here you can view, edit, and even create
queries.
Create a Query Using SQL
You can use SQL to create joins between tables sourced from different data streams, perform
calculations, and apply filters.
Create a Query Using the Query Builder
Use the Query Builder to create the query without having to manually create the query in SQL. All you
have to do is select the dimensions and measurements and then a query is created automatically. You
can convert a query from the query builder into SQL and use it as a regular SQL query. For example,
you can save or export the converted query.
Export Query Results
You can download or export query results to S3, SFTP, Google Cloud Platform, Azure Blob, or email
and define an ongoing schedule.
Granular Data Center Query Limitations
There are two tools you can use to create queries, the query builder and SQL. SQL should be used for
more complex use cases. If you experience any limitations with the preview or downloading your data,
consider the export or schedule export options.
Granular Data Center Query Export Options
After you create and run your queries, you can download the results locally, export, and schedule an
export for your results.
Create a Logical View
You can call a query from another query by creating a view. The view saves the entire query statement
so that you don’t have to rewrite it.
Save Query Results as a Data Source
You can upload query results to Marketing Cloud Intelligence as a new data source that complements
existing data not related to the Granular Data Center.
View Granular Data Center Queries
All saved queries appear in the Query Granular Data dialog. Here you can view, edit, and even create
queries.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To view Granular Data Center queries: Admin
From the Connect & Mix tab, select Granular Data Center , and then Query Granular Data.
449

=== PAGE 454 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
(1) This tab shows your saved
queries and tables. To view the
Query Granular Data
dimensions and measurements,
expand a table.
(2) View information about the
Data Set dataset including the number of
workspaces, tables, and views
(3) View all your saved queries
and views. If you want to edit a
Query Library query or reuse it, double-click
the query name and it appears
in a new tab in the editor.
Query Editor (4) Create and edit queries.
Create a Query Using SQL
You can use SQL to create joins between tables sourced from different data streams, perform
calculations, and apply filters.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a Granular Data Center query: Admin
Marketing Cloud Intelligence supports Presto SQL. For more information, see Presto documentation.
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Granular Data Center, and then Query Granular Data.
22.. Click Create New Query. SQL is selected by default.
450

=== PAGE 455 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
33.. Click Create.
44.. Create a query.
55.. To see the results, click Run (1). The results appear in the Preview area at the bottom of the page (2).
66.. To automatically format the query so that all commands are aligned, click Auto format query (3).
77.. To reuse a query, click Copy to Clipboard and then paste in the relevant location (4).
88.. To add the query to the Query Library for future use, click Save.
99.. To upload the query to Marketing Cloud Intelligence as another data source, click Materialize Query
(5).
During the initial query process of creating the data stream or data lake, only the first 1000 rows are
processed. After that the entire dataset is retrieved.
To learn more, see Save Query Results as a Data Source.
1100.. To export the query results, click Schedule Export (6). To learn more, see Export Query Results.
451

=== PAGE 456 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a Query Using the Query Builder
Use the Query Builder to create the query without having to manually create the query in SQL. All you
have to do is select the dimensions and measurements and then a query is created automatically. You
can convert a query from the query builder into SQL and use it as a regular SQL query. For example, you
can save or export the converted query.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a Granular Data Center query: Admin
Note If you want to pull data from different tables in the Granular Data Center, first define the
fusions between the dimensions on the Granular Data ERD tab.
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Granular Data Center, and then Query Granular Data.
22.. Click Create New Query.
33.. Select Query Builder and then click Create.
452

=== PAGE 457 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
44.. Click the plus sign next to the entity that you want to add (1). For example, add a dimension. A list of
all the dimensions that exist in the Granular Data Center appears.
55.. Select the dimensions for the query.
66.. Repeat the same steps to add measurements. After you add measurements, you can change the dates
for which you’re applying the query (2). The date is the past 30 days.
77.. To add a filter, click the plus sign in the Filter column (3). For example, if you want to only query a
specific campaign.
88.. Click Run (4). The query results appear at the bottom of the page.
99.. To convert the query builder to SQL, click Create SQL Version at the top of the dialog.
A new tab opens with the SQL, allowing you to edit the code if necessary.
Note The converted SQL query isn’t saved automatically. If you want to save the query click Save.
For more information, see Create a Query Using SQL.
Export Query Results
You can download or export query results to S3, SFTP, Google Cloud Platform, Azure Blob, or email and
define an ongoing schedule.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To export query results: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Granular Data Center, and then Query Granular Data.
22.. Create a query or select a saved one.
33.. Run the query.
453

=== PAGE 458 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
44.. To download the query results locally, select Download. Only the first 20,000 rows are downloaded.
55.. To export all the data, click Export To and select the format.
Note
••
If you select Email, by default the file format is CSV Friendly Formatting.
••
In general, for all export formats, CSV Friendly Formatting is limited to 2.3M rows in the results.
66.. To export on a scheduled basis, click Scheduled Export. The options change according to the format
you select. After you set the delivery method and enter your credentials, set the frequency. For
example, set daily to export the results on a daily basis.
Granular Data Center Query Limitations
There are two tools you can use to create queries, the query builder and SQL. SQL should be used for
more complex use cases. If you experience any limitations with the preview or downloading your data,
consider the export or schedule export options.
This table presents the different actions and their limitations:
Action Limitation
UI Preview
Timeout: 3 Min
Returned Rows: 5,000
Download Returned Rows: 25,000
Export to
File Formats: PARQUET, ORC, CSV, and CSV
Friendly Formatting
CSV Friendly Formatting is limited to 2.3M rows in
the results.
Scheduled Export
File Formats: PARQUET, ORC, CSV, and CSV
Friendly Formatting
CSV Friendly Formatting is limited to 2.3M rows in
the results.
Granular Data Center Query Export Options
After you create and run your queries, you can download the results locally, export, and schedule an
export for your results.
454

=== PAGE 459 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Action Description
Download Download your query locally on your computer.
File format: CSV
Export to
Export your query results directly to your preferred
location.
Delivery Methods:
•
S3
•
SFTP
•
Azure Blob
•
Google Cloud Storage
•
Email (By default, the file format for email is
CSV Friendly Formatting and can’t be modified)
File Format:
•
ORC
•
PARQUET
•
CSV
Schedule Export
Schedule an export to automatically export your
query results based on the frequency you select.
Delivery Methods:
•
S3
•
SFTP
•
Azure Blob
•
Google Cloud Storage
•
Email (By default, the file format for email is
CSV Friendly Formatting and can’t be modified)
File Format:
•
ORC
•
PARQUET
•
CSV
Frequency Options:
•
Hourly
•
Daily
455

=== PAGE 460 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Action Description
•
Weekly
•
Bi-Weekly
•
Monthly
•
Quarterly
•
Yearly
Create a Logical View
You can call a query from another query by creating a view. The view saves the entire query statement so
that you don’t have to rewrite it.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a Granular Data Center query view: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Granular Data Center, and then Granular Data Query.
22.. On the Query Library tab, select a saved query and click Settings.
33.. Under Create View, select Save this query as a logical view.
44.. For Set View Name, enter a name. Use only lowercase letters and no spaces.
55.. Save your changes.
66.. To call this view, enter the saved name in a query.
Save Query Results as a Data Source
You can upload query results to Marketing Cloud Intelligence as a new data source that complements
existing data not related to the Granular Data Center.
These options are available.
•
TotalConnect—Creates a TotalConnect data stream that is preconfigured to query the Granular Data
Center for data ingestion. Because TotalConnect is governed by the data model, you must map the
retrieved fields into the data model accordingly. Rows added through TotalConnect are charged as per
TotalConnect rows, in addition to the Granular Data Center charges for the same data. For more
information, see Creating Data Streams with TotalConnect in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
LiteConnect—Creates a standalone data stream and doesn’t require any mapping. For more
information, see Create a Data Stream with LiteConnect in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
•
Granular Data Center —Turns the results of this query into an additional table within the Granular Data
Center for further processing or querying.
456

=== PAGE 461 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Visualizing Granular Data Center Data
The Entity-Relationship Diagram (ERD) displays a visual representation of all the tables and connections
between specific dimensions from within these tables. Each block represents an existing table and
contains a list of all the fields available within the table. The lines connecting tables also depict
connections between specific dimensions from the connected tables.
Change Granular Data Center Connections
You can change the joins created between dimensions and tables by modifying the ERD. Connect
relevant fields in just a few clicks, while defining the join type, and the cardinality type.
Change Granular Data Center Connections
You can change the joins created between dimensions and tables by modifying the ERD. Connect
relevant fields in just a few clicks, while defining the join type, and the cardinality type.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To change Granular Data Center connections: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Granular Data Center, and then Granular Data ERD.
22.. Use your mouse to zoom in or out and to move the diagram to the left or right.
You can also use the map at the bottom left-hand side of the page to move to the desired location.
33.. A line connecting tables indicates a relationship between specific dimensions, this connection is called
a fusion.
44.. To create a connection between tables, click an entity and drag until you reach the entity you’re
457

=== PAGE 462 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
connecting to. As you’re dragging, a line appears.
55.. After a connection is made, click Join Type to determine when and how records are returned for the
joined entities.
Inner Returns common records from both tables.
Returns all records from the left table and any
Left
matches from the right table.
Returns all records even if no matches are found
Full
from the left or right table.
66.. To define the type of relationship, from the Select Cardinality dropdown select one of the following:
One to many, Many to one, or Many to many.
77.. Save your changes.
Sharing Granular Data Centers
You can share a Granular Data Center if it contains data that is relevant to other workspaces in the same
account.
For example, an agency pulls event-level data from a source that contains all the agency’s activities for all
its clients. In this case, the agency wants to share that data with the other workspaces.
A workspace can share its own native Granular Data Centers with other workspaces in the same account,
and the other workspaces can query the data within their own workspace. You can share an entire
Granular Data Center or parts of it (tables or views).
When a Granular Data Center is shared, the workspace can query the Granular Data Center and use the
results to export reports. You can also create TotalConnect or LiteConnect data streams based on the
local querying of the source Granular Data Center.
Share a Granular Data Center with Other Workspaces
458

=== PAGE 463 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Share a Granular Data Center with other workspaces to share tables and views with other users.
Query Shared Granular Data Centers
You can query a shared Granular Data Center and pull views and tables from other Granular Data
Centers.
Managing Shared Granular Data Centers
You can view and manage shared Granular Data Centers and workspaces that have access to the
Granular Data Centers.
Share a Granular Data Center with Other Workspaces
Share a Granular Data Center with other workspaces to share tables and views with other users.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To share Granular Data Centers: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Granular Data Center.
22.. At the top of the page, click Sharing Management.
459

=== PAGE 464 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
33.. Search for the names of the workspaces you want to share the Granular Data Center with. All
workspaces that have Granular Data Center enabled and that you have access to are listed.
44.. To share specific tables, from the dropdown list, select the tables.
55.. To share specific views, from the dropdown list, select the views.
66.. Click Add to List when you’re done. All shared Granular Data Centers appear in the table.
77.. To disable Granular Data Center sharing, click Remove Share.
88.. Click Apply when you’re done.
Query Shared Granular Data Centers
You can query a shared Granular Data Center and pull views and tables from other Granular Data
Centers.
460

=== PAGE 465 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Granular Data Center in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To query shared Granular Data Centers: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Granular Data Center, and then Query Granular Data.
22.. From the list on the right side, click a workspace to see its tables and fields.
33.. Use SQL to query the source Granular Data Center, for example, pull the profile attributes from all your
workspaces.
To query a shared Granular Data Center, the references to a table must have the relevant schema.
When you double-click the table name, this detail is automatically populated for you in the query
code.
This example shows a query for profile attributes (city, language, state, and postal code) that pulls data
from the shared workspace (schema_2432096.profile_attributes).
The Results tab (2) shows all the relevant data that was pulled. The first 5,000 rows appear, and the
results are extracted using a materialized query or export.
Managing Shared Granular Data Centers
You can view and manage shared Granular Data Centers and workspaces that have access to the
Granular Data Centers.
Click Source Lakes (1) to see the number of Granular Data Centers from other workspaces that are
shared with the workspace.
To see the number of workspaces that the Granular Data Center is shared with, click Granted Access to
Workspaces (2).
Manage sharing the native Granular Data Center with other workspaces (3). For more information, see
Share a Data Lake with Other Workspaces.
Deleting Data from a Granular Data Center
To facilitate compliance with various data protection and privacy regulations, you can delete data from a
Granular Data Center.
Important Only admins can delete data. Because data deletion is irreversible, be aware of the
461

=== PAGE 466 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Dimensions
repercussions. To delete data, the admin must open a ticket with the required request.
You can either completely remove data from the database or delink specific values within the Granular
Data Center. Delinking keeps the data in the Granular Data Center but replaces certain field values with
other values.
Note Data is deleted only after 7 days from deletion.
Delete Data from a Granular Data Center
You can either remove data from the database or delink specific values within a Granular Data Center.
Delete Data from a Granular Data Center
You can either remove data from the database or delink specific values within a Granular Data Center.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To delete data from a Granular Data Center: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Granular Data Center, and then Delete Data.
22.. To delete data, define the rules for deletion, and then select Delete Row. For example, delete every
row in the profile table that contains the value dato@datorama.com in the email column.
33.. To delink data, define the rules for deletion, and then select Delink Row. For example, in the profile
table, replace the First and Last name values with Anonymous for every row that contains
dato@datorama.com’ in the email column.
Dimensions
In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, a dimension is a qualitative non-numerical attribute that provides
information about your dataset, for example, campaign name and campaign ID. A dimension can’t be
counted, even when it includes a number. For instance, a campaign ID consists of numbers but you can’t
calculate them.
The dimension list shows which dimensions the data model uses and are available in your workspace.
The available dimension types are: Text, Date, Link, Image, Number, Video.
From the dimension list, you can:
•
Export the dimension list.
•
Edit dimension display names.
Note If a calculated dimension is inherited from another workspace, you can edit it only in the
462

=== PAGE 467 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Dimensions
original workspace.
•
Replace a dimension across your workspace.
•
View the data stream associated with the dimensions.
•
View which dimensions are mapped and unmapped.
Calculated Dimensions
A calculated dimension is a non-numerical field or dimension that you can create on top of your
existing data. Calculated dimensions don’t exist physically in the database. Rather, each calculated
dimension represents a query that can be referenced to from any report, pivot table, and widget in
your dashboard pages.
Calculated Dimension Functions
Marketing Cloud Intelligence provides basic functions you can use to create dynamic calculated
dimensions
Applying Pacing Dimensions
When viewing periodic data at a daily level, the data appears as spikes of metrics on the first day of the
week or month. To avoid data spikes, you can map one or more pacing dimensions to the data stream.
Pacing equally divides periodic data into multiple chunks of rows and spreads the chunks over the
selected time period. Because pacing creates multiple new rows across the time period, using a pacing
dimension can increase your row count.
Dimension Explorer in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The Dimension Explorer shows the values of all the dimensions in the platform and the origin of these
values. Use the Dimension Explorer when you need to troubleshoot dimension issues so you can get
to the root of the problem.
Calculated Dimensions
A calculated dimension is a non-numerical field or dimension that you can create on top of your existing
data. Calculated dimensions don’t exist physically in the database. Rather, each calculated dimension
represents a query that can be referenced to from any report, pivot table, and widget in your dashboard
pages.
You can create and manage calculated dimensions from the Calculated Dimension tab or within a
widget.
You can use a calculated dimension to:
•
Remove unwanted characters or spaces. You can also use it to shorten a name, such as a long website
name, without affecting the data.
•
Remove unwanted spaces from dimension values. If you have a campaign name with too many spaces
in between the words, you can remove the additional spacing, leaving a single space between words.
Create a Calculated Dimension from the Calculated Dimension Tab
Create calculated dimensions on top of existing data and refer to them across your workspace.
Create a Calculated Dimension from a Widget
463

=== PAGE 468 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Dimensions
Create calculated dimensions on top of existing data and refer to them across your workspace.
Related Measurements in Calculated Dimensions
A related measurement is linked to a calculated dimension and used to populate the dimension
values in a list. You can add a related measurement when creating a calculated dimension, in the
Advanced section.
Create a Calculated Dimension from the Calculated Dimension Tab
Create calculated dimensions on top of existing data and refer to them across your workspace.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
Create and manage calculated dimensions Power User or Admin
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, expand Dimensions, and then expand Calculated Dimensions.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. In the General section, name the dimension, add a description, and select the type.
The type affects the format in the widget settings. In most cases, select Text.
44.. In the Advanced section, you can link a measurement to the calculated dimension’s formula to
populate lists with the dimension’s values. For example, you have a calculated dimension that returns
an email name with the related measurement of clicks. When the calculated dimension is used in a
widget, the returned email name values are only emails that had at least one click within the date
range that the page is filtered on. If no related measurement is used, all email names are returned,
including those without clicks.
55.. To hide widgets that contain the calculated dimension from users who don’t have Admin or Power
User permissions, select Invisible Dimension.
66.. In the Expression section, enter the expression that you want to base the calculated dimension on.
For example, if your customers’ email names consist of multiple concatenated values, you can create a
calculated dimension to extract the values and create fields using the formula
EXTRACT([Email_Name],'_',1) .
aa.. Create an expression using the list of available dimensions and functions. To add a function to your
expression, click it or start typing for auto-complete.
bb.. Apply any of the options that appear at the bottom of the screen.
View the expression section in full-screen
Full Screen
mode.
Format your code into the standard correct
Auto Format
structure.
Comment Enter a comment within your expression.
Uncomment Remove your comment from the expression.
Code Validation Validate that your expression is accurate.
464

=== PAGE 469 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Dimensions
Test Test your expression.
77.. Click Save
Create a Calculated Dimension from a Widget
Create calculated dimensions on top of existing data and refer to them across your workspace.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
Create and manage calculated dimensions Power User or Admin
11.. On the Visualize tab, click a dashboard page.
22.. Click the pencil icon to enter edit mode.
33.. To add a widget, click the plus icon.
44.. Select the widget type, and then click the plus icon to add a field.
55.. Click the Add Calculated Field icon , and then click Calculated Dimension.
66.. In the General section, name the dimension, add a description, and select the type.
The type affects the format in the widget settings. In most cases, select Text.
77.. In the Advanced section, you can link a measurement to the calculated dimension’s formula to
populate lists with the dimension’s values. For example, you have a calculated dimension that returns
an email name with the related measurement of clicks. When the calculated dimension is used in a
widget, the returned email name values are only emails that had at least one click within the date
range that the page is filtered on. If no related measurement is used, all email names are returned,
including those without clicks.
88.. To hide widgets that contain the calculated dimension from users who don’t have Admin or Power
User permissions, select Invisible Dimension.
99.. In the Expression section, enter the expression that you want to base the calculated dimension on.
For example, if your customers’ email names consist of multiple concatenated values, you can create a
calculated dimension to extract the values and create fields using the formula
EXTRACT([Email_Name],'_',1) .
aa.. Create an expression using the list of available dimensions and functions. To add a function to your
expression, click it or start typing for auto-complete.
bb.. Apply any of the options that appear at the bottom.
View the expression section in full-screen
Full Screen
mode.
Format your code into the standard correct
Auto Format
structure.
Comment Enter a comment within your expression.
Uncomment Remove your comment from the expression.
465

=== PAGE 470 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Dimensions
Code Validation Validate that your expression is accurate.
Test Test your expression.
1100.. Click Save
See Also
Create a Calculated Dimension from the Calculated Dimension Tab
Related Measurements in Calculated Dimensions
A related measurement is linked to a calculated dimension and used to populate the dimension values
in a list. You can add a related measurement when creating a calculated dimension, in the Advanced
section.
When a calculated dimension is added to a list, such as to populate an interactive filter widget, the
dimension values from the relevant data stream type are pulled from the database.
For example, you're using a calculated dimension based on Campaign Name, and you want to use the
dimension in an interactive filter. Unfortunately, you have mutually exclusive campaigns in your Ads and
Conversion data. Use a calculated measurement that includes Impressions and Total Conversions as the
related measurements. This way, your calculated dimension works for both ad and conversion types,
giving you the results you need.
Calculated dimensions can generate values from different data stream types, as long as the related
measurements pull measurements from other data stream types.
To use a calculated dimension that includes an entity that exists in multiple data stream types while
including all the values of the calculated dimension, create a new calculated measurement. Then use the
new calculated measurement as the related measurement. The calculated dimension applies to both
data tables and unifies the values into one list.
Selecting a related measurement with no values doesn’t affect the results of the calculated dimension.
Calculated Dimension Functions
Marketing Cloud Intelligence provides basic functions you can use to create dynamic calculated
dimensions
The functions are divided into these categories:
•
Number Functions
•
Text Functions
•
Date Functions
•
Aggregation Functions
•
Logical Functions
466

=== PAGE 471 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Dimensions
•
Type Conversion
•
Content Functions
These tables summarize the available functions for calculated dimensions.
Number Functions
FUNCTION NAME SYNTAX DESCRIPTION
ABS ABS(number) Returns the absolute value of a
number.
CEILING CEILING(number, significance) Rounds the number up, away
from zero, to the nearest
multiple significance.
FLOOR FLOOR(number, significance) Rounds the number down
toward zero, to the nearest
multiple significance.
RAND RAND() Gets a random number between
0 and 1.
ROUND ROUND(number) Rounds a number to the nearest
integer.
ROUND ROUND(number, num_digits) Rounds a number to a specified
number of digits.
Text Functions
FUNCTION NAME SYNTAX DESCRIPTION
CHAR CHAR(number) Returns a character specified by
a number.
COALESCE COALESCE([value1, value2,...]) Returns the first value from the
list that isn’t empty.
CODE CODE(text) Returns a numeric code for the
first character in a text string.
COUNT_CHAR COUNT_CHAR(text, Counts how many times a
charToCount) specific character appears in a
text.
EXTRACT EXTRACT(text, delimiter, Extracts from the given text the
position) substring, at the given position,
467

=== PAGE 472 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Dimensions
FUNCTION NAME SYNTAX DESCRIPTION
after splitting by the given
delimiter. For example,
EXTRACT(‘a,b,c’,’_’,1) returns ‘b’.
FIND FIND(findText, withinText) Returns the starting position of
findText withinText. Returns -1 if
withinText doesn’t contain
findText.
FUZZYMATCH FUZZYMATCH(valueToMatch, Searches for a string in an array
array, threshold) of values that potentially match
using duplicate-detection
algorithms that calculate the
similarity of two streams of data.
Returns the matched string from
the array if there’s a match or, if
no matches are found, returns
an empty string. For example,
FUZZYMATCH("ABC
Company",{"ABC Company
Inc","Apple Inc","IBM
Company"},0.8) returns "ABC
Company Inc". The threshold
parameter must be a value
between 0 and 1. A threshold of
1 means an exact match.
GET_EXCHANGE_RATE GET_EXCHANGE_RATE(date,
Get the exchange rate for the
fromISO, toISO)
given currencies and date.
The ‘date’ variable in the formula
can be a mapped date field or a
date function
For example:
•
GET_EXCHANGE_RATE([Day],
'USD', 'GBP')
where [Day] is a mapped date
field
•
GET_EXCHANGE_RATE(DATE('
2015','8','17'),'USD','GBP')
468

=== PAGE 473 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Dimensions
FUNCTION NAME SYNTAX DESCRIPTION
where DATE('YYYY','MM','DD') is a
date function.
•
GET_EXCHANGE_RATE(YESTE
RDAY(),'USD','GBP')
where YESTERDAY() is a date
function.
INDEXOF INDEXOF(array, findText)
Searches the array for the
specified item, and returns its
position.
Returns -1 if the item isn’t found.
If the item is present more than
once, the INDEXOF function
returns the position of the first
occurrence.
For example,
INDEXOF(csv['row'], 'Campaign
ID') == 0 returns true if
'Campaign ID' was found in the
first cell.
Note: The first item has position
0, the second item has position
1, and so on.
ISEMPTY ISEMPTY(value) Returns if the value is empty or
not.
LEFT LEFT(text, numOfChars) Returns the requested number
of characters from the left.
LEN LEN(text) Returns the number of
characters in the given text
LOWER LOWER(text) Converts all uppercase letters in
a string to lower-case letters.
MATCH MATCH(valueToMatch, array) Searches for a specified item in
an array of values, and then
returns a boolean result. For
example, MATCH(1,{1,2,3})
469

=== PAGE 474 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Dimensions
FUNCTION NAME SYNTAX DESCRIPTION
returns true because the value
'1' exists in the array.
PROPER PROPER(text) Capitalizes the first letter in a
text string and any other letters
in text that follow any character
other than a letter. Converts all
other letters to lowercase letters.
REPLACE REPLACE(SourceStr, pattern, Replaces every match of a
targetStr) pattern (a regex expression) in
sourceStr to targetStr. For
example, REPLACE('All-The-Best',
'-', ' ') returns 'All The Best'. In
another example, REPLACE('Let
It Be','\\s','-') returns 'Let-It-Be'.
RIGHT RIGHT(text, numOfChars) Returns the requested number
of characters from the right.
SELECT SELECT(sourceStr, pattern) Selects the first match of the
pattern (a regex expression) in
the sourceStr. For example,
SELECT('Hello B wow E
Goodbye', 'B(.*?)E') returns 'B
wow E'.
SEMTIMEN SENTIMEN(text) Extracts a positive, neutral, or
negative sentiment from the
given text.
SPLIT SPLIT(text, delimiter) Splits a text string into an array
by using a delimiter character. It
returns a zero-based, one-
dimensional array holding the
parts of the original text string.
For example, SPLIT('a,b,c', ',')
returns an array with three items.
SUBSTITUTE SUBSTITUTE(text,oldText,newTex Substitutes newText for oldText
t) in a text string. Use SUBSTITUTE
when you want to replace
specific text in a text string.
SUBSTRING SUBSTRING(text,beginIndex,end Returns the substring of the text
Index) beginning at beginIndex
(inclusive) and ending at
470

=== PAGE 475 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Dimensions
FUNCTION NAME SYNTAX DESCRIPTION
endIndex (exclusive).
TRIM TRIM(text) Removes all spaces from the text
except for single spaces between
words.
UPPER UPPER(text) Converts all lowercase letters in a
text string to uppercase.
URL_DECODE URL_DECODE(text) Decodes an application/x-www-
form-urlencoded string using a
UTF-8 encoding scheme.
URL_ENCODE URL_ENCODE(text) Translates a text into an
application/x-www-form-
urlencoded format using a UTF-8
encoding scheme.
VALUE_FROM_JSON VALUE_FROM_JSON(JSON Returns the value for a given key
string, key) in a JSON string. If the key
doesn’t exist or the JSON is
empty, an empty string is
returned.
Date Functions
FUNCTION NAME SYNTAX DESCRIPTION
DATE DATE(year, month) Returns the first day of the given
month in the given year.
DATE DATE(year, month, day) Returns the date representing
the given arguments.
DATEADD DATEADD(interval, number, Returns the date after a specific
date) time or date interval was added.
The interval must be one of 'yyyy'
(year), 'q' (quarter), 'm' (month),
'd' (day), 'ww' (week), 'h' (hour),
'n' (minute), or 's' (second).
DATEDIFF DATEDIFF(interval,startDate,end Returns the number of time
Date units specified by the interval
between the startDate and the
endDate. The startDate and
endDate arguments must be
471

=== PAGE 476 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Dimensions
FUNCTION NAME SYNTAX DESCRIPTION
date objects or date strings in
standard form. The interval must
be one of 'yyyy' (year), 'q'
(quarter), 'm' (month), 'd' (day),
'ww' (week), 'h' (hour), 'n'
(minute), or 's' (second).
DAYPRECISION DAYPRECISION(date) Returns the given date with day
precision, meaning the hours,
minutes, and seconds fields are
all set to 0. For example, the
date '12-Jun-2012 16:34' is
converted to '12-Jun-2012
00:00'.
DAYSBETWEEN DAYSBETWEEN(startDate, Returns the number of days
endDate) between the given startDate and
endDate. The arguments must
be date objects or date strings in
standard form.
DAYSINMONTH DAYSINMONTH(date) Returns the number of days in a
specified month.
NETWORKDAYS NETWORKDAYS(startDate, Returns the number of workdays
endDate) between two dates, excluding
weekends. The arguments must
be date objects or date strings in
standard form.
NOW NOW() Returns the current system date
and time.
SETHOUR SETHOUR(date, hour) Returns the given date set with
the given hours, with the hours
being a numeric value from 0
through 23.
TODAY TODAY() Returns the current system date.
TOSECONDS TOSECONDS(duration) Returns the number of seconds
represented by the given
duration string, with the format
HH:mm:ss/HH:mm:ss.SSS.
YESTERDAY YESTERDAY() Returns yesterday’s system date.
472

=== PAGE 477 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Dimensions
Aggregation Functions
FUNCTION NAME SYNTAX DESCRIPTION
GROUPCONCAT GROUPCONCAT(groupedDimen Concatenates the values of
sion, keyDimension, separator) groupedDimension by
keyDimension, with the
separator string between each
two grouped values. This process
is done uniquely, that is, the
same value repeated isn’t
concatenated twice. For
example,
GROUPCONCAT({Media Buy
Name}, {Campaign Name}, ',')
results in all media buy names
concatenated (with no
repetitions) for each campaign.
Logical Functions
FUNCTION NAME SYNTAX DESCRIPTION
AND AND(condition1, condition2) Logical AND, checks to see that
both conditions are true.
IF IF(condition,resultifTrue,resultifF Returns the second argument if
alse) the first argument is true, and
the third argument if otherwise.
IFERROR IFERROR(someExpression, Returns the someExpression if
number) it’s a valid number, otherwise
returns a number.
NOT NOT(condition) Logical NOT, reverses the logic of
its argument, true becomes false
and vice versa.
OR OR(condition) Logical OR, checks to see if
either one of the conditions is
true.
473

=== PAGE 478 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Dimensions
Type Conversion Functions
FUNCTION NAME SYNTAX DESCRIPTION
COMPRESS COMPRESS(value1) Compresses a string using gzip,
and returns it in base64.
DECODE_BASE64 DECODE_BASE64(value1) Decodes a string from base64.
DOUBLE DOUBLE(value1) Converts a string to a double.
ENCODE_BASE64 ENCODE_BASE64(value1) Encodes a string to base64.
FORMATDATE FORMATDATE(date, pattern) Returns the string representation
of the given date according to
the supplied pattern. For
example, 'yyyy-MM-dd' -->
2014-02-25, 'dd MMM-yyyy' -->
25 Feb-2014, etc.
FORMATDATE_DEFAULT FORMATDATE_DEFAULT(date) Returns the default (yyyy-MM-dd
HH:mm:ss.S) Marketing Cloud
Intelligence string representation
of the given date.
MD5 MD5(stringToHash) Returns an MD5 hash of the
given string.
NUMBER NUMBER(value1) Converts a string to a number
PARSEDATE PARSEDATE(dateString, pattern) Returns the date object specified
by the given dateString using the
given pattern. For example,
'2014-02-25' ---> 'yyyy-MM-dd',
'25 Feb-2014' ---> 'dd MMM-
yyyy', etc.
SHA256 SHA256(stringToHash) Returns a SHA256 hash of the
given string.
STRIP_HTML STRIP_HTML(value1) Strips HTML from a string.
UNCOMPRESS UNCOMPRESS(value1) Uncompresses a base64 string
using gzip.
474

=== PAGE 479 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Dimensions
Context Functions
FUNCTION NAME SYNTAX DESCRIPTION
CONTEXT_DIMENSION_CONTAI CONTEXT_DIMENSIONS_CONTA Returns a 'true' value if the given
NS IN(dimension) dimension is included in the
query.
CONTEXT_DIMENSION_EQUALS CONTEXT_DIMENSIONS_EQUAL Returns a 'true' value if the given
S(dimension) dimensions are exactly the
context dimensions. Enter all the
relevant dimensions, but the
order of appearance isn’t
important.
FilterEndDate FilterEndDate() Returns the end date of the
query filter.
FilterStartDate FilterStartDate() Returns the start date of the
query filter.
GET_ENV GET_ENV(variableName) Returns the value for the given
environment variable. Possible
values for variableName are:
WORKSPACE_ID
QUERY_DIMENSIONS_CONTAIN QUERY_DIMENSIONS_CONTAIN Returns a 'true' value if the given
(dimension) dimension is one of the query
dimensions.
QUERY_DIMENSIONS_EQUAL QUERY_DIMENSIONS_EQUAL([ Returns a 'true' value if the given
dimensions]) dimensions are exactly the query
dimensions. Enter all the
relevant dimensions, but the
order of appearance isn’t
important.
Applying Pacing Dimensions
When viewing periodic data at a daily level, the data appears as spikes of metrics on the first day of the
week or month. To avoid data spikes, you can map one or more pacing dimensions to the data stream.
Pacing equally divides periodic data into multiple chunks of rows and spreads the chunks over the
selected time period. Because pacing creates multiple new rows across the time period, using a pacing
dimension can increase your row count.
Mapping Measurements with a Pacing Period
When using a pacing period, it’s important to map the measurements correctly. For example, if you
475

=== PAGE 480 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Dimensions
map impressions or clicks, their type is Integer. However, mapping an Integer type can result in the
calculation being rounded down. You can avoid miscalculations by using a delivery custom metric.
Map a Pacing Dimension
A pacing dimension divides data into shorter time periods to avoid data spikes. Map a pacing
dimension according to the way your data is brought in. For example, if your data stream uses only the
start date, map the Start Date to the Day dimension and then set the pacing period.
Mapping Measurements with a Pacing Period
When using a pacing period, it’s important to map the measurements correctly. For example, if you map
impressions or clicks, their type is Integer. However, mapping an Integer type can result in the calculation
being rounded down. You can avoid miscalculations by using a delivery custom metric.
For example, you have 400 impressions for January 2018 and you’re using pacing to spread the
impressions over the month. When you calculate the impressions per day (400/31=12), the results aren’t
correct because 12*31=372, so you’ve lost 28 impressions. The results are even more incorrect when
working with a smaller amount of data.
However, if you use the Delivery Custom Metric instead, which is a Double type, the data is correct.
This is how the data appears.
476

=== PAGE 481 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Dimensions
Map a Pacing Dimension
A pacing dimension divides data into shorter time periods to avoid data spikes. Map a pacing dimension
according to the way your data is brought in. For example, if your data stream uses only the start date,
map the Start Date to the Day dimension and then set the pacing period.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To map pacing dimensions: Admins
11.. When creating or editing a data stream, select Map to Model.
22.. Map the pacing dimensions based on how your data is brought in.
477

=== PAGE 482 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Dimensions
For example, if only the start date exists in the source file, map Start Date to the Day dimension. Then
set the Pacing Period dimension to the time period defined in the source file. For example, if the
source file displays measurements by week, select Week.
If both the start and end dates are provided, map Start Date to the Day dimension and End Date to the
Pacing End Date dimension, respectively.
Dimension Explorer in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The Dimension Explorer shows the values of all the dimensions in the platform and the origin of these
values. Use the Dimension Explorer when you need to troubleshoot dimension issues so you can get to
the root of the problem.
When you discover an issue, you can go to the Dimension Explorer. For example, when looking at a
dashboard you notice the site name is wrong.
By going to the Dimension Explorer you can find the dimension with the incorrect value and discover its
478

=== PAGE 483 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Dimensions
origin. You can then go to the data stream where the error occurred, fix the site name (usually this is due
to a wrong formula) and then reprocess the data. This can take time and sometimes the issue occurs in
more than one data stream. You can also manually update the site name in the Dimension Explorer and
this fixes the issue instantly.
Use the Dimension Explorer to Explore and Fix Data Issues
When you encounter issues with dimensions, for example an incorrect value, use the Dimension
Explorer to find out what happened. Search for the dimension, discover where the issue stems from
and then fix the issue instantly.
Use the Dimension Explorer to Explore and Fix Data Issues
When you encounter issues with dimensions, for example an incorrect value, use the Dimension
Explorer to find out what happened. Search for the dimension, discover where the issue stems from and
then fix the issue instantly.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use the Dimension Explorer: Admin
Note Generic data steam type dimensions aren’t available in the Dimension Explorer.
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, select Dimensions, and then Dimension Explorer.
Here you can see all the dimensions that exist in the platform.
22.. In the Search bar, enter the dimension you’re investigating. For example, enter Site.
479

=== PAGE 484 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Dimensions
33.. To search for a specific value, click the Filter button and then filter by the incorrect value.
Here you can see this site name comes from Data Stream 2.
You can go back to the data stream, fix it and then reprocess it, or to save time change the value in the
Dimension Explorer.
44.. To fix the incorrect value, go to the Site Name column, click and then enter a new value.
55.. If the value belongs to old data and won’t be used again, select the row and then click Delete.
66.. Save your work.
Make sure you remove the filter when you’re done so you can see all the dimensions again.
480

=== PAGE 485 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
Measurements
In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, measurements are quantitative numerical data that you can count, for
example, number of clicks and emails opened. Measurements are used to set KPIs and analyze your
data.
The Measurement list, found in the Connect & Mix tab under the measurement menu, shows which
measurements the data model uses and the entities the measurements are associated with.
The available measurement types are: Currency, Number, Duration, and Percentage.
The available aggregation types are: AVG, COUNT, FIRST, LAST, LIFETIME, MAX, MIN, and SUM.
From the Measurement list, you can:
•
Export the measurement list.
•
Edit the measurement display names, type, and aggregation.
•
Replace a measurement across your workspace.
•
View which data streams the measurement is mapped to.
•
View which measurements are mapped and unmapped.
Note If a calculated measurement is inherited from another workspace, you can edit it only in the
original workspace.
Calculated Measurements
A calculated measurement is a numerical custom calculation that you can create on top of your
existing data. The calculated measurement doesn’t physically exist in the database. Rather, it
represents a query that you can reference from any report, pivot table, or widget in your dashboard
pages.
Filtered Measurements
A filtered measurement is used to customize an existing measurement to include information relating
to a specific dimension attribute.
Calculated Measurements
A calculated measurement is a numerical custom calculation that you can create on top of your existing
data. The calculated measurement doesn’t physically exist in the database. Rather, it represents a query
that you can reference from any report, pivot table, or widget in your dashboard pages.
For example, you want to view your return on ad spend (ROAS) to better analyze your campaign
performance. Instead of manually calculating the ROAS per campaign, create a calculated measurement
to extract this information from your data and view it in your campaign’s goals or dashboards.
Create a Calculated Measurement From The Calculated Measurement Tab
Create a calculated measurement on top of existing data that you can refer to across your workspace.
481

=== PAGE 486 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
Create a Calculated Measurement from a Widget
Create calculated measurements on top of existing data so you can refer to them across your
workspace. Widgets can be used to display the calculated measurement data.
Aggregation and Total Aggregation Functions
An aggregation function computes numerical calculations on data, allowing the query to return
summarized information about a given column or result set. You can use an aggregation function to
calculate each row at the dimension level or the total value. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, you
define the aggregation function when creating a calculated measurement.
Granularity in Calculated Measurements
Granularity is the level of detail considered and then represented in an analysis or query. The greater
the granularity, the deeper the level of detail. With more detail, you can better understand the smaller
components of your data and create a fuller picture.
System Calculated Measurement
Marketing Cloud Intelligence calculates popular industry measurements that you can use as data in
widgets, reports, and pivot tables. The measurements are calculated using fixed formulas using your
workspace’s data. A measurement is available only if its formula’s components are mapped in an
existing data stream. For example, if you uploaded a data source with MTC data, the MTC system
calculated measurements appear. This table describes the available system calculated measurements
and their formulas.
Calculated Measurement Functions
Use functions when creating a calculated measurement to make your functions more dynamic.
Create a Calculated Measurement From The Calculated Measurement Tab
Create a calculated measurement on top of existing data that you can refer to across your workspace.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create and manage calculated measurements: Power User or Admin
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, expand Measurements, and then expand Calculated Measurements.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. In the General section, define the calculated measurement.
When setting the decimal places, the more places you specify, the more exact the calculation.
44.. In the Advanced section define advanced settings.
aa.. For Total Aggregation Function, select the function to calculate the total value of a query. For
example, SUM, AVG, MIN, or MAX. Values that appear in separate rows of a display are all
aggregated in the Total row. The Total Aggregation Function and the Aggregation Function—set in
the expression section— should be the same.
bb.. Set the granularity—Determine the level the calculations for the measurement takes place.
cc.. To let null values be used in the formulas,, select Treat Nulls as Zeros
dd.. To include the date in the granularity of the calculation, select Include Date in Granularity
482

=== PAGE 487 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
55.. In the Expression section, define the expression:
aa.. Set the aggregation function to determine the calculation result for all the produced rows. When a
granularity is set, the underlying calculation produces multiple calculation results for multiple rows.
These rows must be aggregated into a single row of the displayed dimension.
bb.. Create the expression that you want to base the calculated measurement on using the list of
available measurements and functions. For example, if you want to calculate email open rate that
uses email sends as the denominator instead of email deliveries, use this expression:
IFERROR([Email_Unique_Opens]/[Email_Sends], null) The IFERROR function results in
the calculated measurement returning null values when the email sends equal to 0.
cc.. To add a function to your expression, click it, or start typing for auto-complete.
66.. Click Save.
Create a Calculated Measurement from a Widget
Create calculated measurements on top of existing data so you can refer to them across your workspace.
Widgets can be used to display the calculated measurement data.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create and manage calculated measurements: Power User or Admin
11.. On the Visualize tab, click a dashboard page.
22.. Click the pencil icon to enter edit mode.
33.. To add a widget, click the plus icon.
44.. Select the widget type, and then click the plus icon to add a field.
55.. Click the Add Calculated Field icon , and then click Calculated Measurement.
66.. In the General section, define the calculated measurement.
When setting the decimal places, the more places you specify, the more exact the calculation.
77.. In the Advanced section define advanced settings.
aa.. For Total Aggregation Function, select the function to calculate the total value of a query. For
example, SUM, AVG, MIN, or MAX. Values that appear in separate rows of a display are all
aggregated in the Total row. The Total Aggregation Function and the Aggregation Function—set in
the expression section— should be the same.
bb.. Set the granularity—Determine the level the calculations for the measurement takes place.
cc.. To let null values be used in the formulas, select Treat Nulls as Zeros
dd.. To include the date in the granularity of the calculation, select Include Date in Granularity
88.. In the Expression section, define the expression:
aa.. Set the aggregation function to determine the calculation result for all the produced rows. When a
granularity is set, the underlying calculation produces multiple calculation results for multiple rows.
These rows must be aggregated into a single row of the displayed dimension.
bb.. Create the expression that you want to base the calculated measurement on using the list of
available measurements and functions. For example, if you want to calculate email open rate that
uses email sends as the denominator instead of email deliveries, use this expression:
483

=== PAGE 488 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
IFERROR([Email_Unique_Opens]/[Email_Sends], null) The IFERROR function results in
the calculated measurement returning null values when the email sends equal to 0.
cc.. To add a function to your expression, click it, or start typing for auto-complete.
99.. Click Save.
Aggregation and Total Aggregation Functions
An aggregation function computes numerical calculations on data, allowing the query to return
summarized information about a given column or result set. You can use an aggregation function to
calculate each row at the dimension level or the total value. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, you define
the aggregation function when creating a calculated measurement.
For example, to perform a different calculation per row, such as getting the average value for each
dimension while summing all the values in the total row, set the aggregation function to AVG and the
total aggregation function to SUM to sum the values in the different rows.
Use Case
You can use both the aggregated function and the total aggregation function in cases where you have a
calculated measurement with a formula that includes a dimension with an aggregation function set to
Auto, and the total value in the query for this calculated measurement is zero. The reason there’s no total
value is because the total row doesn’t include the formulas’ required dimension for this calculated
measurement. To solve this issue and display a total value, you can set a total aggregation function to
display a total value based on the value of each row in the query.
Granularity in Calculated Measurements
Granularity is the level of detail considered and then represented in an analysis or query. The greater the
granularity, the deeper the level of detail. With more detail, you can better understand the smaller
components of your data and create a fuller picture.
For example, you have a calculated measurement that calculates cost per click (CPC) per media buy. The
granularity is set to the media buy dimension, and the calculation is done on the values of each media
buy key. By setting the granularity of the calculated measurement to a lower level, such as the creative
level, the calculation now occurs at the creative key level when slicing the calculated measurement on
any relevant dimension.
System Calculated Measurement
Marketing Cloud Intelligence calculates popular industry measurements that you can use as data in
widgets, reports, and pivot tables. The measurements are calculated using fixed formulas using your
workspace’s data. A measurement is available only if its formula’s components are mapped in an existing
data stream. For example, if you uploaded a data source with MTC data, the MTC system calculated
measurements appear. This table describes the available system calculated measurements and their
484

=== PAGE 489 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
formulas.
System Calculated Measurement Expression
buy data actualized cost daily buy data recalculated_cost - buy data recalculated
cost accumulative + delivery buy data actualized
cost
buy data actualized cost share buy data actualized cost * buy data share of total
buy data actualized cost total buy data recalculated cost total +buy data fixed
cost
buy data expected cost daily buy data capped cost /buy data IO days
buy data remaining budget buy data capped cost - buy data recalculated cost
accumulative
company count countdistinct('company_id')
conversion CPA media cost / conversion total conversions
conversion rate total conversions / impressions
conversion ROAS conversion revenue / delivery media cost
conversion ROI (conversion revenue - delivery media cost) /
delivery media cost
CPC media cost / clicks
CPE media cost / total engagements
CPM (media cost / impressions) * 1000
CRM lead count countdistinct('real_crm_lead_id')
CRM opportunity count countdistinct('real_crm_opportunity_id')
CTR clicks / impressions
customer count countdistinct('customer_id')
data vendor cost total media cost + data vendor cost 1 + data vendor
cost 2 + data vendor cost 3 + data vendor cost 4 +
data vendor cost 5
dwell rate impressions with dwell / impressions
interactions rate interactions / impressions
page content count countdistinct('competitive_page_content_key')
positions weighted positions computed /delivery impressions
485

=== PAGE 490 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
System Calculated Measurement Expression
social engagement rate social total engagement / impressions
social post engagement rate social organic total engagement / social post
impressions
social view duration social minutes watched / social social views) * 60
time on site average time on site total / website visits
video completion 25% rate video completions 25% / delivery impressions
video completion 50% rate video completions 50% / impressions
video completion 75% rate video completions 75% / impressions
video fully played rate video fully played / impressions
video views rate video views / impressions
viewability rate viewed IAB impressions / measured IAB
impressions
visitor bounce rate visitor bounce / site visits
web analytics position weighted web analytics position computed / search results
impressions
Depending on when your workspace was created, you could see email measurements or messaging
measurements.
System Calculated Measurement Expression
email bounces rate daily email total bounces daily / email send daily
email CTR email clicked / email delivered
email CTR daily email clicked daily / email delivered daily
email CTR to open email clicks / email opened
email ctr to open daily email clicked daily/ email opened daily
email delivery rate email delivered / email sent
email delivery rate daily email delivered daily / email send daily
email open rate email opened / email delivered
email open rate daily email opened daily/ email delivered daily
email total bounces email soft bounces + email hard bounces
email total bounces daily email soft bounces daily + email hard bounces
486

=== PAGE 491 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
System Calculated Measurement Expression
daily
email unsubscribe rate email unsubscribe / email delivered
email unsubscribes rate daily email unsubscribe daily / email delivered daily
message CTOR message users clicked / message users opened
message CTOR (lifetime) email clicks / email opens
message CTR message users clicked / email delivered daily
message CTR lifetime email clicks/email delivered
message open rate lifetime email opens / emails delivered
buy data group actualized cost buy data group actualized cost * buy data group
share of total
cost per engagement media cost / social total engagement
cost per follow media cost / social follows
cost per like media cost / social page likes
CPCV media cost / video fully played
CPV media cost / video views
email bounce % email total bounces / emails sent
net new fans added fans - removed fans
post consumption frequency social post consumptions (lifetime) / social post
consumers (lifetime)
search CTR search results clicks / search results impressions
social monitor total count social monitor positive count + social monitor
negative count + social monitor neutral count
viewable human impressions human view impressions / view measurable
impressions
viewable impressions view impressions / view measurable impressions
views frequency views /unique views
Calculated Measurement Functions
Use functions when creating a calculated measurement to make your functions more dynamic.
487

=== PAGE 492 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
The functions are divided into these categories:
•
Number
•
Text
•
Date
•
Aggregation
•
Logical
•
Type Conversion
•
Context
Number Functions
Returns a numerical value.
Function Name Syntax Description
ABS ABS(number) Returns the absolute value of a
number.
CEILING CEILING(number,significance) Rounds the number up away
from zero to the nearest multiple
significance.
EXP_TREND EXP_TREND(metric) Computes an exponential trend
line for the given metric.
FLOOR FLOOR(number,significance) Rounds the number down
toward zero to the nearest
multiple significance.
LINEAR_TREND LINEAR_TREND(metric) Computes a linear trend line for
the given metric.
LOG_TREND LOG_TREND(metric) Computes a log trend line for
the given metric.
MOVING_AVG MOVING_AVG(metric, Computes a moving average
windowSize) with the given window size. If
windowSize is null or negative, a
fully cumulative average is
computed.
POWER_TREND POWER_TREND(metric) Computes a power trend line for
the given metric.
RAND RAND() Gets a random number between
0 and 1.
488

=== PAGE 493 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
Function Name Syntax Description
ROUND ROUND(number)
Rounds a number to the nearest
integer. For example:
ROUND(4.2) =4
ROUND(4.6) =5
ROUND ROUND(number,num_digits) Rounds a number to a specified
number of digits.
TREND_SLOPE TREND_SLOPE(metric, Computes the linear trend slope
windowSize) in the given window size. If
windowSize is null or negative, a
fully cumulative average is
computed.
Text Functions
Function Name Syntax Description
CHAR CHAR(number) Returns a character specified by
a number.
COALESCE COALESCE([value1, value2,...]) Returns the first value from the
list that isn’t empty.
CODE CODE(text) Returns a numeric code for the
first character in a text string.
COUNT_CHAR COUNT_CHAR(text,charToCount) Counts how many times a
specific character appears in a
text.
EXTRACT EXTRACT(text,delimiter,position) Extracts from the given text the
substring at the given position,
after splitting by the given
delimiter. For example,
EXTRACT(‘a,b,c’,’_’,1) returns ‘b’.
FIND FIND(findText,withinText)
Returns the starting position of
findText withinText.
For example, FIND('World',
'Hello World') returns 6.
FIND('aoc', 'Hello World') returns
489

=== PAGE 494 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
Function Name Syntax Description
-1.
FUZZYMATCH FUZZYMATCH(valueToMatch, Searches for a string in an array
array, threshold) of values that potentially match
using duplicate-detection
algorithms that calculate the
similarity of two streams of data.
Returns the matched string from
the array or an empty string if no
matches are found. For example,
FUZZYMATCH("ABC
Compani",{"ABC Company
Inc","Apple Inc","IBM
Company"},0.8) returns "ABC
Company Inc". The threshold
parameter must be a value
between 0 and 1. A threshold of
1 means an exact match.
GET_EXCHANGE_RATE GET_EXCHANGE_RATE(date,
Gets the exchange rate for the
fromISO, toISO)
given currencies and date.
The date variable in the formula
can be either a mapped date
field or a date function.
For example:
GET_EXCHANGE_RATE([Day],
'USD', 'GBP')
where [Day] is a mapped date
field.
GET_EXCHANGE_RATE(DATE('2
021','8','17'),'USD','GBP
')
where DATE('YYYY','MM','DD') is a
date function.
GET_EXCHANGE_RATE(YESTERD
AY(),'USD','GBP')
where YESTERDAY() is a date
function.
490

=== PAGE 495 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
Function Name Syntax Description
INDEXOF INDEXOF(array, findText)
Searches the array for the
specified item, and returns its
position.
Returns -1 if the item isn’t found.
If the item is present more than
one time, the INDEXOF function
returns the position of the first
occurence.
For example,
INDEXOF(csv['row'], 'Campaign
ID') == 0 returns true if
'Campaign ID' was found in the
first cell.
Note: The first item has position
0, the second item has position
1, and so on.
ISEMPTY ISEMPTY(value)
Returns if the value is empty or
not. For example, ISEMPTY(‘ab’)
returns false.
ISEMPTY(‘’) returns true.
LEFT LEFT(text,numOfChars) Returns the requested number
of characters from the left. For
example LEFT(‘abcde’, 2) returns
‘ab’.
LEN LEN(text)
Returns the number of
characters in the given text.
For example LEN(‘abc’) returns
3.
LOWER LOWER(text)
Converts all uppercase letters in
a string to lowercase letters. For
example,
LOWER(‘AbC’) returns ‘abc’.
491

=== PAGE 496 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
Function Name Syntax Description
MATCH MATCH(valueToMatch,array) Searches for a specified item in
an array of values and then
returns a boolean result. For
example, MATCH(1,{1,2,3})
returns true because the value
'1' exists in the array.
PROPER PROPER(text) Capitalizes the first letter in a
text string and any other letters
in text that follow any character
other than a letter. Converts all
other letters to lowercase.
REPLACE REPLACE(SourceStr,pattern, Replaces every match of a
targetStr) pattern (a regex expression) in
sourceStr to targetStr. For
example, REPLACE('All-The-Best',
'-', ' ') returns 'All The Best'.
REPLACE('Let It Be','\\s','-')
returns 'Let-It-Be'.
RIGHT RIGHT(text,numOfChars) Returns the requested number
of characters from the right. For
example, RIGHT(‘abcde’, 2)
returns ‘de’.
SELECT SELECT(sourceStr,pattern) Selects the first match of the
pattern (a regex expression) in
the sourceStr. For example,
SELECT('Hello B wow E
Goodbye', 'B(.*?)E') returns 'B
wow E'.
SEMTIMEN SENTIMEN(text) Extracts a positive, neutral, or
negative sentiment from the
given text.
SPLIT SPLIT(text,delimiter) Splits a text string into an array
by using a delimiter character. It
returns a zero-based, one-
dimensional array holding the
parts of the original text string.
For example, SPLIT('a,b,c', ',')
returns an array with three items.
SUBSTITUTE SUBSTITUTE(text,oldText,newTex Substitutes newText for oldText
492

=== PAGE 497 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
Function Name Syntax Description
t) in a text string. Use SUBSTITUTE
when you want to replace
specific text in a text string.
SUBSTRING SUBSTRING(text,beginIndex,end Returns the substring of the text
Index) beginning at beginIndex
(inclusive) and ending at
endIndex (exclusive).
TRIM TRIM(text) Removes all spaces from the text
except for single spaces between
words. For example, TRIM('Hello
World') returns 'Hello World'.
UPPER UPPER(text) Converts all lowercase letters in a
text string to uppercase. For
example, UPPER(‘abC’) returns
‘ABC’.
URL_DECODE URL_DECODE(text) Decodes an application/x-www-
form-urlencoded string using a
UTF-8 encoding scheme.
URL_ENCODE URL_ENCODE(text) Translates a text into an
application/x-www-form-
urlencoded format using a UTF-8
encoding scheme.
VALUE_FROM_JSON VALUE_FROM_JSON(JSON Returns the value for a given key
string, key) in a JSON string. If the key
doesn’t exist or the JSON is
empty, an empty string is
returned.
Date Functions
Function Name Syntax Description
DATE DATE(year,month) Returns the first day of the given
month in the given year.
DATE DATE(year,month,day) Returns the date representing
the given arguments.
DATEADD DATEADD(interval,number, date) Returns the date after which a
certain time/date interval has
493

=== PAGE 498 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
Function Name Syntax Description
been added. The interval can be
one of the following: 'yyyy'
(year), 'q' (quarter), 'm' (month),
'd' (day), 'ww' (week), 'h' (hour),
'n' (minute), or 's' (second).
DATEDIFF DATEDIFF(interval,startDate,end Returns the number of time
Date units specified by interval
between the startDate and the
endDate. The startDate and
endDate arguments can be date
objects or date strings in
standard form. The interval can
be one of the following: 'yyyy'
(year), 'q' (quarter), 'm' (month),
'd' (day), 'ww' (week), 'h' (hour),
'n' (minute), 's' (second). For
example, DATEDIFF('m',
PARSEDATE('12/22/2021','MM/
d/yyyy'), PARSEDATE('10/18/
2021','MM/d/yyyy')) returns -2.
DAYPRECISION DAYPRECISION(date) Returns the given date with day
precision,so hours, minutes, and
seconds fields are all set to 0. For
example, the date '12-Jun-2012
16:34' is converted to
'12-Jun-2012 00:00'.
DAYSBETWEEN DAYSBETWEEN(startDate,endDat Returns the number of days
e) between the given startDate and
endDate.The arguments can be
date objects or date strings in
standard form.
DAYSINMONTH DAYSINMONTH(date) Returns the number of days in a
specified month.
NETWORKDAYS NETWORKDAYS(startDate,endDa Returns the number of workdays
te) between two dates, excluding
weekends.The arguments can be
date objects or date strings in
standard form.
NOW NOW() Returns the current system date
and time.
494

=== PAGE 499 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
Function Name Syntax Description
SETHOUR SETHOUR(date,hour) Returns the given date set with
the given hours, with hour being
a numeric value between 0 and
23.
TODAY TODAY() Returns the current system date.
TOSECONDS TOSECONDS(duration) Returns the amount of seconds
represented by the given
duration string in the format
HH:mm:ss/HH:mm:ss.SSS.
YESTERDAY YESTERDAY() Returns yesterday’s system date.
Aggregation Functions
All aggregation functions look at a data range, as opposed to a single row. You can specify the data range
you want the calculated measurement to consider by defining the set of rows that the function operates
on, which is called a window function.
You can define a window function in two ways.
•
Use GroupByDims within your function, for example SUM([metric],[[groupByDims]])
•
Use a syntax that lets you choose in which row the function begins to apply and where it stops, such as
SUM(metric, first_index(), last_index())
If you don’t define the window function, aggregation functions consider all the data included in the
query.
Function Name Syntax Description
ACC ACC(metric, [groupByDims], Gives an accumulative sum of
orderByDim, sortOrder) the metric grouped by the
dimensions, ordered by the
orderByDim with the given
sortOrder (‘ASC’ or ‘DESC’). For
example, ACC(‘Clicks’, [‘Media
Buy Key’], ‘Day’, ‘ASC’).
ACC ACC(metric, orderByDim, Gives an accumulative sum of
sortOrder, first_index(), the metric ordered by the
last_index()) orderByDim with the given
sortOrder (‘ASC’ or ‘DESC’). The
window is defined as an offset
from the current row. Use
495

=== PAGE 500 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
Function Name Syntax Description
first_index()+n and last_index()-
n for the offsets from the first
and last row in the partition. If
the last two parameters are
omitted, the entire partition is
used.
ACC_SUM ACC_SUM(metric) Computes an accumulating sum
for the given metric. Unlike ACC,
this function does not require
you to insert a sort order.
AVG AVG(metric, [groupByDims]) Computes the average of the
given metric grouped by the
supplied dimensions.
AVG AVG(metric, first_index(), Computes the average of the
last_index()) given metric. The window is
defined as an offset from the
current row. Use first_index()+n
and last_index()-n for offsets
from the first and last row in the
partition. If the last two
parameters are omitted, the
entire partition is used.
CORREL CORREL(metric1, metric2, Calculates the Pearson Product-
[groupByDims]) Moment Correlation Coefficient
for two sets of values. Set the
appropriate precision when
creating a calculated
measurement using correlation.
CORREL CORREL(metric1, metric2, Calculates the Pearson Product-
first_index(), last_index()) Moment Correlation Coefficient
for two sets of values. The
window is defined as an offset
from the current row. Use
first_index()+n and last_index()-
n for the offsets from the first
and last row in the partition. If
the last two parameters are
omitted, the entire partition is
used.
COUNT COUNT(metric, [groupByDims]) Counts the number of rows
496

=== PAGE 501 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
Function Name Syntax Description
(grouped by the supplied
dimension list) in which the
given metric exists.
COUNT COUNT(metric, first_index(), Counts the number of rows
last_index()) (grouped by the supplied
dimension list) in which the
given metric exists.The window is
defined as offsets from the
current row. Use first_index()+n
and last_index()-n for offsets
from the first or last row in the
partition. If the last two
parameters are omitted, the
entire partition is used
(optional).
COUNT COUNTDISTINCT([dimensions], Returns the number of unique
[groupByDims]) appearances of dimension value
combinations within the
supplied context dimensions. If
no groupBy dimensions are
supplied, the row context is
used.
DENSE_RANK DENSE_RANK([groupByDims], Computes the dense rank
orderField, sortOrder) grouped by the dimensions,
ordered by the orderField with
the given sortOrder (‘ASC’ or
‘DESC’). If groupByDims is
omitted, it is calculated over the
entire range.
FIRST FIRST(metric, [groupByDims]) Returns the first value
(considering the results’ date
dimension) of the given metric,
grouped by the supplied
dimensions.
FIRST FIRST(metric, first_index(), Returns the first value
last_index()) (considering the results’ date
dimension). The window is
defined as offsets from the
current row. Use first_index()+n
and last_index()-n for offsets
497

=== PAGE 502 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
Function Name Syntax Description
from the first or last row in the
partition. If the last two
parameters are omitted, the
entire partition is used..
GROUPCONCAT GROUPCONCAT(groupedDimen Concats the values of
sion,keyDimension, separator) groupedDimension by
keyDimension, with the
separator string between each
two grouped values. If a value is
repeated, it’s not concated twice.
For example,
GROUPCONCAT({Media Buy
Name}, {Campaign Name}, ',' )
results in all media buy names
concated (with no repetitions)
for each campaign.
LAST LAST(metric, [groupByDims]) Returns the latest value
(considering the results’ date
dimension) of the given metric,
grouped by the supplied
dimensions.
LAST LAST(metric, first_index(), Returns the latest value
last_index()) (considering the results date
dimension). The window is
defined as offsets from the
current row. Use first_index()+n
and last_index()-n for offsets
from the first or last row in the
partition. If the last two
parameters are omitted, the
entire partition is used
(optional).
LIFETIME LIFETIME(metric, Computes the lifetime
[groupByDims]) aggregation of the given metric
grouped by the supplied
dimensions.
LIFETIME LIFETIME(metric, first_index(), Computes the lifetime
last_index()) aggregation of the given metric.
The window is defined as offsets
from the current row. Use
498

=== PAGE 503 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
Function Name Syntax Description
first_index()+n and last_index()-
n for offsets from the first or last
row in the partition. If the last
two parameters are omitted, the
entire partition is used
(optional).
MAX MAX(metric, [groupByDims]) Computes the maximum of the
given metric grouped by the
supplied dimensions.
MAX MAX(metric, first_index(), Computes the maximum of the
last_index()) given metric.The window is
defined as offsets from the
current row. Use first_index()+n
and last_index()-n for offsets
from the first or last row in the
partition. If the last two
parameters are omitted, the
entire partition is used
(optional).
MEDIAN MEDIAN(metric, [groupByDims]) Returns the median (the value
lying at the midpoint of the
frequency distribution of all the
values) of a metric across all
records. You can use median
only with numeric fields. Null
values are ignored.
MEDIAN MEDIAN(metric, first_index(), The window is defined as offsets
last_index()) from the current row. Use
first_index()+n and last_index()-
n for offsets from the first or last
row in the partition. If the last
two parameters are omitted, the
entire partition is used.
(optional).
MIN MIN(metric, [groupByDims]) Computes the minimum of the
given metric grouped by the
supplied dimensions.
MIN MIN(metric, first_index(), Computes the minimum of the
last_index()) given metric. The window is
defined as offsets from the
499

=== PAGE 504 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
Function Name Syntax Description
current row. Use first_index()+n
and last_index()-n for offsets
from the first or last row in the
partition. If the last two
parameters are omitted, the
entire partition is used
(optional).
PERCENTILE PERCENTILE(metric, number, Returns the percentile value of
[groupByDims]) the given metric corresponding
to the specified number. The
number must be between 0 and
1 (inclusive), for example, 0.66,
and must be a numeric constant.
PERCENTILE PERCENTILE(metric, number, Computes the percentile value
first_index(), last_index()) of the given metric
corresponding to the specified
number. The number must be
between 0 and 1 (inclusive), for
example, 0.66, and must be a
numeric constant. The window is
defined as offsets from the
current row. Use first_index()+n
and last_index()-n for offsets
from the first or last row in the
partition. If the last two
parameters are omitted, the
entire partition is used
(optional).
RANK RANK([groupByDims], Computes the rank grouped by
orderField, sortOrder) the dimensions, ordered by the
orderField with the given
sortOrder (‘ASC’ or ‘DESC’). If
groupByDims is omitted, it is
calculated over the entire range.
STDEV STDEV(metric, [groupByDims]) Computes the standard
deviation of the given metric
grouped by the supplied
dimensions.
STDEV STDEV(metric, first_index(), Computes the standard
last_index()) deviation of the given metric.
500

=== PAGE 505 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
Function Name Syntax Description
The window is defined as offsets
from the current row. Use
first_index()+n and last_index()-
n for offsets from the first or last
row in the partition. If the last
two parameters are omitted, the
entire partition is used
(optional).
SUM SUM(metric, [groupByDims])
Computes the sum of the given
metric grouped by the supplied
dimensions.
For example, SUM(‘Clicks’,
[‘Media Buy Key’, ‘Creative Key’])
returns the sum of clicks per
media buy key and creative key.
SUM SUM(metric, first_index(), Computes the sum of the given
last_index()) metric. The window is defined as
offsets from the current row. Use
first_index()+n and last_index()-
n for offsets from the first or last
row in the partition. If the last
two parameters are omitted, the
entire partition is used
(optional).
TOTAL TOTAL(metric, [groupByDims])
Computes the total of the metric
grouped by the supplied
dimensions, according to its
defined aggregation function.
For example, if a metric m has
aggregation type MAX -
TOTAL(‘m’, [Dimensions]) ==
MAX(‘m’, [Dimensions]).
VAR VAR(metric, [groupByDims]) Computes the variance of the
given metric grouped by the
supplied dimensions.
VAR VAR(metric, first_index(), Computes the variance of the
last_index()) given metric. The window is
501

=== PAGE 506 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
Function Name Syntax Description
defined as offsets from the
current row. Use first_index()+n
and last_index()-n for offsets
from the first or last row in the
partition. If the last two
parameters are omitted, the
entire partition is used.
first_index first_index() Returns the number of rows
from the current row to the first
row in the partition.
index index() Returns the index of the current
row in the partition.
last_index last_index()
Returns the number of rows
from the current row to the last
row in the partition.
Logical Functions
Function Name Syntax Description
AND AND(condition1, condition2) Logical AND, checks to see that
both conditions are true.
IF IF(condition,resultifTrue,resultifF Returns the second argument if
alse) the first argument is true, and
the third argument if otherwise.
IFERROR IFERROR(someExpression, Returns the someExpression if
number) it’s a valid number. Otherwise,
returns a number.
NOT NOT(condition) Logical NOT, reverses the logic of
its argument: true becomes false
and vice versa.
OR OR(condition) Logical OR, checks to see if
either one of the conditions are
true.
502

=== PAGE 507 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
Type Conversion
Function Name Syntax Description
COMPRESS COMPRESS(value1) Compresses a string using gzip
and returns it in base64.
DECODE_BASE64 DECODE_BASE64(value1) Decodes a string from base64.
DOUBLE Converts a string to a double.
DOUBLE(value1)
ENCODE_BASE64 ENCODE_BASE64(value1) Encodes a string to base64.
FORMATDATE FORMATDATE(date,pattern) Returns the string representation
of the given date according to
the supplied pattern. For
example, (Fri Dec 22 00:00:00
UTC 2021) returns 22-Dec-2021.
FORMATDATE_DEFAULT FORMATDATE_DEFAULT(date) Returns the default (yyyy-MM-dd
HH:mm:ss.S) Marketing Cloud
Intelligence string representation
of the given date. For example,
DATEADD('d',3,PARSEDATE('12/
22/2021','MM/d/yyyy')) returns
(Mon Dec 25 00:00:00 UTC
2021).
MD5 MD5(stringToHash) Returns an MD5 hash of the
given string.
NUMBER NUMBER(value1) Converts a string to a number.
PARSEDATE PARSEDATE(dateString,pattern) Returns the date object specified
by the given dateString using the
given pattern. For example,
PARSEDATE('12/22/2021','MM/
d/yyyy') returnsFri Dec 22
00:00:00 UTC 2021.
SHA256 SHA256(stringToHash) Returns a SHA256 hash of the
given string.
STRIP_HTML STRIP_HTML(value1)
Strips HTML from a string.
UNCOMPRESS UNCOMPRESS(value1) Uncompresses a base64 string
using gzip.
503

=== PAGE 508 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
Context Functions
Function Name Syntax Description
CONTEXT_DIMENSION_CONTAI CONTEXT_DIMENSIONS_CONTA Returns true if the given
NS IN(dimension) dimension is included in the
query.
CONTEXT_DIMENSION_EQUALS CONTEXT_DIMENSIONS_EQUAL Returns true if the given
S(dimension) dimensions are exactly the
context dimensions. Enter all
relevant dimensions, but the
order isn’t important.
FilterEndDate FilterEndDate() Returns the end date of the
query filter.
FilterStartDate FilterStartDate() Returns the start date of the
query filter.
GET_ENV GET_ENV(variableName) Returns the value for the given
environment variable. Possible
values are: WORKSPACE_ID.
QUERY_DIMENSIONS_CONTAIN QUERY_DIMENSIONS_CONTAIN Returns true if the given
(dimension) dimension is one of the query
dimensions.
QUERY_DIMENSIONS_EQUAL QUERY_DIMENSIONS_EQUAL([
Returns true if the given
dimensions])
dimensions are exactly the query
dimensions. Enter all the
relevant dimensions, but the
order isn’t important.
Filtered Measurements
A filtered measurement is used to customize an existing measurement to include information relating to
a specific dimension attribute.
For example, if you want to display impressions from an ads verification source, you can create a filtered
measurement based on impressions filtered only by the ads verification source. The filtered
measurement is a separate measurement and doesn’t affect the original measurement it’s based on.
Filtered measurements can only be based on system measurements, not calculated measurements.
Create filtered measurements with the Measurements tab, or inside a widget.
Create a Filtered Measurement
504

=== PAGE 509 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Measurements
Create a filtered measurement to customize a measurement to include specific information correlating
to certain dimensional attributes. For example, you want to display your impressions only from an ads
verification source. You can create a filtered measurement based on impressions that is filtered for
only the ads verification source. The filtered measurement is a separate measurement and does not
affect the original measurement it is based on. Filtered measurements can only be based on system
measurements, not calculated measurements.
Create a Filtered Measurement from a Widget
A filtered measurement is used to customize a measurement to include information relating to a
specific dimension attribute. You can create a filtered measurement directly from within a widget.
Create a Filtered Measurement
Create a filtered measurement to customize a measurement to include specific information correlating
to certain dimensional attributes. For example, you want to display your impressions only from an ads
verification source. You can create a filtered measurement based on impressions that is filtered for only
the ads verification source. The filtered measurement is a separate measurement and does not affect the
original measurement it is based on. Filtered measurements can only be based on system
measurements, not calculated measurements.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create filtered measurements: Admin
11.. From the Connect and Mix tab, select Measurements, and then Filtered Measurements.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Define the general details:
aa.. Name the filtered measurement.
bb.. Select the measurement you want to filter.
cc.. Add a symbol and color to appear next to the filtered measurement in reports.
44.. To filter the filtered measurement by a specific date range, in the Filter section, select Time Period,
and then select the date range.
55.. To add a filter to your filtered measurement click Add Filter and define the filter. For example, a filter
allows you to apply the filtered measurement to a specific data stream.
Note To save your filtered measurement you must select a time period or add a filter.
66.. Save your filtered measurement.
Create a Filtered Measurement from a Widget
A filtered measurement is used to customize a measurement to include information relating to a specific
dimension attribute. You can create a filtered measurement directly from within a widget.
505

=== PAGE 510 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create filtered measurements from widgets: Admin
11.. On the Visualize tab, go into edit mode, and then select the widget you want to create a filtered
measurement for.
22.. Click the Data tab.
33.. Click the Calculated Fields icon and select Filtered Measurement. If only one measurement is
allowed in the widget, the filtered measurement replaces the existing measurement. If the widget
allows multiple measurements the new filtered measurement is added.
44.. Define the general details:
aa.. Name the filtered measurement.
bb.. Select the measurement you want to filter.
cc.. Add a symbol and color to appear next to the filtered measurement in reports.
55.. To filter the filtered measurement by a specific date range, in the Filter section, select Time Period,
and then select the date range.
66.. To add a filter to your filtered measurement click Add Filter and define the filter. For example, a filter
allows you to apply the filtered measurement to a specific data stream.
Note To save your filtered measurement you must select a time period or add a filter.
77.. Save your filtered measurement.
Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Marketing Cloud Intelligence offers many tools so you can get a real-time view of all your marketing data
in one place. You get everything from standard key performance indicator (KPI) reporting to complex
visualizations required for audience segmentation, customer journey analytics, and predictive modeling.
And it’s all done in the Visualize tab in the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform.
Get Started
To get started, learn about visualization elements (collections, pages, and widgets), visualization tools,
and how to navigate the Visualize tab in the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform.
Collections
After you connect your data to Marketing Cloud Intelligence, you can start to organize and manage
your data for the different departments of your organization—for example, delivery data, cost data, or
social impact. The relevant data for each department is managed in separate visualization entities or
collections.
Pages
Pages segment your collections so you can divide up your data according to your preferences, such as
products, campaigns, or social platforms. Each page can be customized and filtered, so you can
modify the design and remove any unwanted data. To assist you in dividing the visualization into
manageable sections, you can have multiple pages within a collection.
506

=== PAGE 511 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Widgets
Widgets are the graphic elements that appear on the page and display your data through pie charts,
tables, and bar graphs. Marketing Cloud Intelligence offers multiple widget types: interactive, element,
and custom.
SmartLenses in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
SmartLenses are predefined dashboard pages that are created for you after a supported data source is
created for the first time. After the data source is processed and data is retrieved, a notification
appears with a link to the SmartLenses dashboard page. All SmartLenses dashboard pages are hosted
under one designated SmartLenses collection.
Share and Export Pages and Widgets
After you’re done creating and designing your page, you’re ready to publish and share it with others.
Use the Share option to share pages and widgets from the same place.
Get Started
To get started, learn about visualization elements (collections, pages, and widgets), visualization tools,
and how to navigate the Visualize tab in the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform.
Get to Know Visualization Elements
The visualization process in Marketing Cloud Intelligence includes three elements: collections, pages,
and widgets.
Get to Know Visualize Tools
Marketing Cloud Intelligence offers an array of different tools to help you create professional, eye-
catching dashboards quickly and efficiently. View your data clearly and share it using multiple formats.
Navigate the Visualize Tab
Go to the Visualize tab to familiarize yourself with the available options and to find all the visualize
elements. The Visualize tab is dynamic and changes when you select different elements.
Get to Know Visualization Elements
The visualization process in Marketing Cloud Intelligence includes three elements: collections, pages,
and widgets.
Collections
Collections synergize all your data and consume it in one place. No matter where data is coming
from—a data stream or an app—you can visualize, organize, and personalize it all together in a
collection.
Pages
Pages visualize your data. You can have multiple pages within your collection to assist you in
dividing the visualization into manageable sections. These page types are available in Marketing
Cloud Intelligence:
•
Blank dashboard pages – Used to create visualizations of your data without any predefined
507

=== PAGE 512 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
settings or design.
•
Dashboard templates – Pages that are created based on a dashboard template saved to the
workspace, allowing you to replicate your dashboard pages across your collections and
workspace.
•
App pages –- Pages that display all the valuable data generated from an installed app, enabling
you to visualize and customize a marketplace app all within your collection.
Widgets
Widgets are the graphic elements that appear on the page, such as pie charts, tables, and bar
graphs.
See Also
Navigate the Visualize Tab
Get to Know Visualize Tools
Marketing Cloud Intelligence offers an array of different tools to help you create professional, eye-
catching dashboards quickly and efficiently. View your data clearly and share it using multiple formats.
•
Widgets – Use the vast library of widgets to bring your data to life.
•
Filters – Use any one of the hundreds of filters available to help you drill down your data to what is
relevant to you.
•
Themes – Create expressive visualizations and customize them with the utmost granular control.
•
InstaBrand – Generate beautiful, branded dashboard themes based on a logo or image uploaded by
you.
•
Export – Share your data with multiple stakeholders in an assortment of different formats.
Navigate the Visualize Tab
Go to the Visualize tab to familiarize yourself with the available options and to find all the visualize
elements. The Visualize tab is dynamic and changes when you select different elements.
•
The left page offers your editing options. Here, you see all the relevant tabs for the setting level you’re
in—whether you’re setting up a widget or designing the page.
•
The top bar is where you can administer page-level settings and actions.
Collections
After you connect your data to Marketing Cloud Intelligence, you can start to organize and manage your
data for the different departments of your organization—for example, delivery data, cost data, or social
impact. The relevant data for each department is managed in separate visualization entities or
collections.
A collection enables you to synergize all your data and consume it in one place. No matter where data is
508

=== PAGE 513 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
coming from, whether a data stream or an app, you can visualize, organize, and personalize it all together
in a collection. You can assign multiple entities to a collection such as app pages, dashboard pages, and
SmartLenses.
Here’s a video about collections:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/airxAVjFshDK4tkfJuX5Lg
Create a Collection
Complete these steps to create a new collection.
Add Pages to a Collection
After you create a collection, you can start adding pages to the collection.
Create a Collection
Complete these steps to create a new collection.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create a collection Admin
11.. Navigate to the Visualize tab.
22.. Click All Collections.
33.. Click Add New.
You can now add pages to your collection.
Add Pages to a Collection
After you create a collection, you can start adding pages to the collection.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To add pages to a collection Admin and Power User
11.. Within your collection, click Add New.
22.. Select the type of page you want to add:
Blank Dashboard Page Create a brand new, blank dashboard page.
Create a new dashboard page that is aligned to
the dashboard template you select. When you
create a template, all the data and design,
Dashboard Templates
including theme, widgets, and filters, are cloned
into the new dashboard page. You can browse
for any dashboard template that is available
509

=== PAGE 514 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
within your workspace.
Create an app page to visualize and customize a
marketplace app within your collection. You can
Apps Page
browse for any app that is installed in your
workspace.
Note Admins see all the installed apps in the workspace or can head straight to the marketplace
to install a new app. Power users see all the installed apps that they have access to.
Pages
Pages segment your collections so you can divide up your data according to your preferences, such as
products, campaigns, or social platforms. Each page can be customized and filtered, so you can modify
the design and remove any unwanted data. To assist you in dividing the visualization into manageable
sections, you can have multiple pages within a collection.
Create Blank Dashboard Pages
You can use a blank dashboard page to create visualizations of your data without any predefined
settings or design. For example, create a dashboard page to illustrate how campaigns are performing
to an executive overview. Divide dashboard pages according to products, campaigns, or social
platforms. And customize them to your preferences.
App Pages
An app page is a page added to your collection that displays all the valuable data generated from an
installed app. App pages enable you to visualize and customize a marketplace app within your
collection, without running over the app instance settings.
Dashboard Page Templates
Dashboard page templates are based on a dashboard template saved to the workspace. Dashboard
templates allow you to replicate your dashboard pages across your collections and workspace. When
you create a dashboard template, all the data and design, including theme, widgets, and filters, are
cloned into the new dashboard page. Using dashboard templates helps unify your workspace and save
valuable time because you don’t create the same dashboard page from scratch.
Create Blank Dashboard Pages
You can use a blank dashboard page to create visualizations of your data without any predefined settings
or design. For example, create a dashboard page to illustrate how campaigns are performing to an
executive overview. Divide dashboard pages according to products, campaigns, or social platforms. And
customize them to your preferences.
Customize Dashboard Pages
After you create a dashboard page, you can customize it to meet your needs via Edit Mode.
Add Filters to Your Page
510

=== PAGE 515 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can add filters to your page when you want to filter the page by any dimension, measurement, or
date. Filters are defined in the Filters tab when in Edit Mode.
Create Interactive FilterSets
Interactive FilterSets enable admins and power users to save different views of their dashboard page
by saving the selections made to the interactive filter widgets. You can also apply interactive FilterSets
as a filter option within the dashboard page. For example, if your dashboard page displays all your
campaigns around the world but you want viewers to quickly see the most successful campaigns in
the US.
Design Your Page
In the Design tab when in Edit Mode, you can design your page to create beautiful and effective
dashboard pages.
Customize Dashboard Pages
After you create a dashboard page, you can customize it to meet your needs via Edit Mode.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To customize dashboard pages Admin and Power User
When you select the page you’re customizing and click the pencil icon to enter Edit mode, you have
these options:
11.. Name your page so you can find the relevant page in your collection.
22.. Set your date range. The date range sets the time range according to the data displayed on the page.
The page doesn’t display data that isn’t in its range. Set your date range by clicking the date. You can
set a predefined date range from the list or set a custom date range.
33.. Add widgets to the dashboard page by clicking the plus icon.
44.. Apply a filter to your page. To define a page-level filter, click the funnel icon. You can also apply filters
on the widget level, which filters according to values and dates.
55.. Save your changes. To discard the changes, click the x button. Unsaved changes aren’t available to
other users.
66.. Publish your dashboard page. When a dashboard page is unpublished, only you and authorized users
can view the dashboard page. Users aren’t able to view unpublished dashboard pages by default. By
publishing a dashboard page, you allow all users with access to the collection to view it. You can
choose to publish or unpublish your dashboard page by clicking the round icon at the top-left.
Unpublished dashboard pages appear with a gray icon, while published dashboard pages appear with
a green icon
77.. To return to view mode, click the eye icon.
88.. To access other options, such as exporting, sharing, or deleting your dashboard page, click the options
menu.
511

=== PAGE 516 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Add Filters to Your Page
You can add filters to your page when you want to filter the page by any dimension, measurement, or
date. Filters are defined in the Filters tab when in Edit Mode.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To add filters to a page Admin and Power User
The two types of filters are:
Enable you to filter the page by any dimension,
Page Filters
measurement, or date.
Enables you to save different views of your
dashboard page by saving the selections made to
Interactive FilterSet the interactive filter widgets on the page. The
filtersets can then be applied as a filter option
within the dashboard page.
To create a page filter.
11.. In the dashboard page, click the pencil icon to enter edit mode.
22.. In the Edit Page pane on the left, click Page Filters. Here you can see if there are any existing page
filters.
33.. Click Add Filter.
44.. Select a dimension, measurement or date field. For example, select Campaign Name.
55.. (Optional) Define a condition. For example, select List Of and then select the name of the campaign
you are filtering by. Note that the condition options change according to the type of field you select.
66.. If you add more than one filter, click Group. This groups the filters using an AND/Or condition and
forms a single filter. Note that you can only create groups on dimension filters.
Create Interactive FilterSets
Interactive FilterSets enable admins and power users to save different views of their dashboard page by
saving the selections made to the interactive filter widgets. You can also apply interactive FilterSets as a
filter option within the dashboard page. For example, if your dashboard page displays all your campaigns
around the world but you want viewers to quickly see the most successful campaigns in the US.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create Interactive FilterSets Admin and Power User
Note All users can see created FilterSets regardless of their user role and permissions. To clear
selected interactive FilterSets, click the options menu when in edit mode, and select Clear
512

=== PAGE 517 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Interactive Filters.
11.. Select the values in the interactive filters that you want to save as an interactive FilterSet.
22.. Within the Interactive FilterSet tab on the left, click the + icon to open the Interactive FilterSet Name.
33.. Save your interactive FilterSet with a meaningful and descriptive name.
44.. To save the selections made with the interactive date and interactive compare widgets in the FilterSet,
select the Save Date Interactive/Compare Widget dates in filtersets checkbox. Every time the user
applies the interactive FilterSet, the date is set according to the date range that was configured in the
interactive date and interactive compare widgets when the interactive FilterSet was saved.
Note If you don’t select this checkbox, the dates selected in the interactive date and interactive
compare widgets aren’t saved in the FilterSet. The dashboard page’s default date range is
displayed instead.
55.. Save the changes.
After you create FilterSets, you can then apply them to dashboard pages from the Filters tab.
Design Your Page
In the Design tab when in Edit Mode, you can design your page to create beautiful and effective
dashboard pages.
Use Designed Themes
Designed themes provide an array of generic themes that you can instantly apply to your dashboard
page to produce stunning visualizations of your data.
Use InstaBrand
InstaBrand is an AI-powered image analysis tool that automatically generates beautiful, branded
dashboard page themes. You can upload an image or choose from a vast catalog of images.
Use Custom Themes
Custom themes provide you with the flexibility to create any designed theme you want. After you
apply an InstaBrand design, you can apply manual changes to your dashboard page from the different
customization options available beneath the InstaBrand options.
Use Designed Themes
Designed themes provide an array of generic themes that you can instantly apply to your dashboard
page to produce stunning visualizations of your data.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To use designed themes Admin and Power User
11.. Select the page you want to edit.
22.. To enter Edit Mode, click the pencil icon.
33.. Select the Design tab.
513

=== PAGE 518 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
44.. Under THEME, click the arrow to open the dropdown list, and then scroll down to LANDSCAPES. You
can see a list of ready-made themes to use.
55.. Select the Landscape Theme you want to apply to your dashboard page, for example, Coastline. Your
dashboard page automatically updates with the selected theme.
66.. Save your dashboard page at the top right of the screen.
Use InstaBrand
InstaBrand is an AI-powered image analysis tool that automatically generates beautiful, branded
dashboard page themes. You can upload an image or choose from a vast catalog of images.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To use InstaBrand Admin and Power User
Note InstaBrand turns on automatically if you apply a theme to your page.
11.. Select the page you want to edit.
22.. To enter Edit Mode, click the pencil.
33.. Select the Design tab.
44.. Turn on InstaBrand by clicking the InstaBrand toggle.
The following options are available in the Branding Assets section:
Logo The logo is used in the dashboard page header
along with the dashboard page name. To open
the Logo Options tab, click the logo. You can link
to the logo or upload a file. Images must be
under 50 MB.
Background Image
The background image is used as the dashboard
page’s background. After you click the
background image, these options are available:
••
Photos – In the search box, enter a keyword in
the search box and hundreds of images display
from the Unsplash library of images.
••
Link – Input a link to the logo you want to use
as your background image.
••
Upload File – Drag and drop a file or browse
for the file you want to add as your
background image.
Color Palette To change the colors, select a color palette.
InstaBrand automatically identifies the color
palettes that exist in the uploaded logo or image.
514

=== PAGE 519 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
You can fine-tune its colors as you want.
Fine-tune the InstaBrand display setting you want to apply to your dashboard page. These options are
dynamic according to the branding assets you set:
Selecting this checkbox applies the selected
color palette to all the charts on the dashboard
page. If it isn’t selected, the chart color settings
Apply Color Palette to Charts
are based on the default or manual settings
previously applied to the widget or measurement
list.
Selecting this checkbox overrides any manual
color settings previously applied to the widget’s
Override Manual Color Changes settings in the Edit mode. This option is only
available if you select the Apply Color Palette to
Charts option.
Select this checkbox to apply the uploaded logo
to the header at the top of the dashboard page.
Show Logo on Top If you clear this checkbox, the logo is hidden, but
you can still use its color palette. This option is
only available if a logo is uploaded.
55.. Save your new theme after you finish configuring it.
66.. Save your dashboard page at the top right of the screen.
Use Custom Themes
Custom themes provide you with the flexibility to create any designed theme you want. After you apply
an InstaBrand design, you can apply manual changes to your dashboard page from the different
customization options available beneath the InstaBrand options.
These options exist:
Customize the layout and design of your widgets
Layout
along with the margins of the page.
Customize the dashboard page’s background
Background color, background image, and opacity, and apply
filters to control brightness and contrast.
Modify your widget’s appearance, for example,
Widgets
fine-tune opacity to apply paddings.
Change the text style throughout your dashboard
Fonts
page.
515

=== PAGE 520 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Note Dashboard pages that have custom themes applied to them can’t be deleted. If you want to
delete the dashboard page, apply a predefined theme, and then delete the dashboard page.
App Pages
An app page is a page added to your collection that displays all the valuable data generated from an
installed app. App pages enable you to visualize and customize a marketplace app within your collection,
without running over the app instance settings.
Create an App Page
You can add new app pages directly from the marketplace or the Visualize tab.
Edit an App Page
You can edit an app page in collections when you want to apply filters to the page or change the page
design. You can align the colors of your app visuals to your dashboard’s look and feel so you can share
your app pages with your end users.
Create an App Page
You can add new app pages directly from the marketplace or the Visualize tab.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create and app page Admin and Power User
Click Manage App in Collections, or, from within the Visualize tab:
11.. Go to the Visualize tab.
22.. Select a collection.
33.. Click Add New Page.
44.. Select App Pages.
55.. Search for or select the app instance you want to create a page for. If you’re an admin user and don’t
see the app you want, click Go to Marketplace for more Apps.
66.. After you click the app you want to create a page for, a new app page is automatically created.
77.. After the app page is created, you can edit the page by clicking the pencil icon.
Note
•
App pages are preconfigured to focus on specific use cases, so you can only edit certain aspects
of the page, such as page filters and permissions.
•
Currently, when exporting a collection that contains an app page, the app isn’t exported.
516

=== PAGE 521 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Edit an App Page
You can edit an app page in collections when you want to apply filters to the page or change the page
design. You can align the colors of your app visuals to your dashboard’s look and feel so you can share
your app pages with your end users.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To edit an app page Admin and Power User
Note Currently, these apps support branding: eCommerce Optimizer, Media Pacing, Data Dictionary,
Media Name Builder, Search Keyword Insights, and Email to Web Conversion. More apps will be
supported in the future.
11.. Go to the Visualize tab, expand a Collection, and then select the app page you want to edit.
22.. Click the Edit button.
Two tabs appear in edit mode:
Filters Apply interactive FilterSets to your app page so
you can save different views of the page.
Design
To change the colors of the page to match your
brand, turn on the Branding toggle. Now you can
change the colors of the app page by clicking on:
••
Theme – Change the theme from a light
theme to a dark theme.
••
Palette color keys – Customize the
background colors, hovering, and button
colors.
••
Back to default color palettes – Revert to the
original colors of the app page.
33.. Save changes.
Note These changes are applied to the app page only, not to the app instance in the marketplace.
Dashboard Page Templates
Dashboard page templates are based on a dashboard template saved to the workspace. Dashboard
templates allow you to replicate your dashboard pages across your collections and workspace. When you
create a dashboard template, all the data and design, including theme, widgets, and filters, are cloned
into the new dashboard page. Using dashboard templates helps unify your workspace and save valuable
time because you don’t create the same dashboard page from scratch.
517

=== PAGE 522 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use Dashboard Page Templates
Use a dashboard page template when you want to replicate your dashboard pages across your
collections and workspace.
Use Dashboard Page Templates
Use a dashboard page template when you want to replicate your dashboard pages across your
collections and workspace.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To use dashboard page templates Admin and Power User
11.. Go to the Visualize tab.
22.. Select a collection.
33.. Click Add New Page.
44.. Select Dashboard Template.
55.. Search for or select the dashboard template you want to create a page for. If you’re an admin user and
want to create a dashboard template, create a dashboard page and save it as a template.
66.. After you click the dashboard template you want to create a page for, a new dashboard page is
created.
77.. After the dashboard page is created, you can edit the page by clicking the pencil icon and start editing
the dashboard page.
Widgets
Widgets are the graphic elements that appear on the page and display your data through pie charts,
tables, and bar graphs. Marketing Cloud Intelligence offers multiple widget types: interactive, element,
and custom.
Create a Widget
You can create a widget from the Visualize tab.
Advanced Customizations
Apply advanced customizations to your widgets such as forecasting, highlighting rules, and cascading
filters.
Widget Types
Marketing Cloud Intelligence offers three different types of widgets so you can visualize your data. The
creation process is dynamic according to the type of widget you select.
Drill-Down Hierarchies
You can drill down dimensions in a bar graph or pie chart widget to view data at a lower granularity.
You can use the default system dimension hierarchies or create your own.
518

=== PAGE 523 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a Widget
You can create a widget from the Visualize tab.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create a widget Admin and Power User
11.. Go to the Visualize tab.
22.. Select a page.
33.. To enter edit mode, click the pencil icon.
44.. To add a widget, click the + sign.
55.. From the left-hand side of the page, select the type of widget you want to create. All widget types are
divided into categories. You can either search through the category or use the Search option to search
for a specific widget.
66.. To view the full list of widget types, click More Types. After you select a widget type, add a name.
Name your widget so you can use other features in Marketing Cloud Intelligence later. If you want to
use filters, make sure that you use the same names.
77.. To show or hide the widget title, click the eye icon next to the widget name. After you select a widget,
you can start configuring it.
Add Data to Your Widget
You can add data to your widget by selecting the measurements and dimensions you want to display.
This step is mandatory because you can’t save the widget without data.
Add a Filter to a Widget
Narrow what a widget shows by adding a filter, for example, limiting results to a particular campaign.
Design Your Widget
The Design tab provides capabilities to further tailor the appearance of specific widgets on your page.
You can make the widget stand out more by modifying the background and changing fonts. Widget
design is based on your pre-determined page theme, so your page’s design is always cohesive and put
together.
Add Data to Your Widget
You can add data to your widget by selecting the measurements and dimensions you want to display.
This step is mandatory because you can’t save the widget without data.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To add data to your widget Admin and Power User
These icons help you recognize the difference between measurements and dimensions:
Measurements
519

=== PAGE 524 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Dimensions
Dates
Filtered Measurements
Calculated measurements and dimensions
11.. Go to the widget you’re adding data to. Make sure that you’re in edit mode.
22.. Select the Data tab.
33.. Click the plus sign (+ Add Field).
By default, Marketing Cloud Intelligence enables the Suggested quick filter and suggests fields based
on the fields you have in other widgets on the page. You can use these suggestions or select your own
measurements or dimensions.
44.. Select the measurements and dimensions you want to display in your widget. Your data is added
automatically to the widget, and it updates in real time.
55.. To add calculated fields, including calculated dimensions, calculated measurements, and filtered
measurements, click Add Calculated Fields.
66.. After you’re done adding data, save your widget.
Now you can add filters and design your widget.
Add a Filter to a Widget
Narrow what a widget shows by adding a filter, for example, limiting results to a particular campaign.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To apply a filter to a widget Admin and Power User
11.. On the Visualize tab, select the widget you want to add a filter to, and then click the edit icon.
22.. Click the Filters tab. The top of the page shows the date filter and how the widget results are sorted.
33.. Click Add Filter. Search for the field that you want to filter by, and enter the condition.
You can add as many filters as you want.
44.. Click Close and then save the page
Example In the example below, the widget inherits its date filtering from the page and displays the
top 20 results, which is the default setting for the Bar Graph widget. By default, this widget is sorted
by the first measurement in descending order, but you can modify how it’s sorted by clicking the
filter icon.
Apply a Dimension Filter to a Page
Filter a page to a dimension from a widget. For example, filter the page to show the results of a specific
product
520

=== PAGE 525 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Apply a Dimension Filter to a Page
Filter a page to a dimension from a widget. For example, filter the page to show the results of a specific
product
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To apply a dimension filter to a page Admin and Power User
11.. In the widget, click a dimension.
22.. Hover over the dimension name, and click the slice page filter icon.
33.. The page is now filtered by the selected dimension.
44.. To remove the slice page filter, click Clear Filter.
Design Your Widget
The Design tab provides capabilities to further tailor the appearance of specific widgets on your page.
You can make the widget stand out more by modifying the background and changing fonts. Widget
design is based on your pre-determined page theme, so your page’s design is always cohesive and put
together.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To design your widget Admin and Power User
11.. Go to the widget you’re designing. Make sure you’re in edit mode.
22.. Select the Design tab. You can use these widget design options:
Display
Define how widgets are displayed on the page.
••
Hide in view mode — Toggle on to hide the widget when
viewing the page in view mode. Hidden widgets remain in
the same place on the page but aren't visible when in view
mode. It’s recommended to place hidden widgets at the
end of the page to avoid empty space.
••
Position — Set the style of the widget’s layout. You can
choose from three types of styles:
•• - Fixed — Keeps the widget in the same place on the page.
•• - Sticky — Fixes the widget to the top of the page, where it
remains when users scroll.
•• - Float — Floats the widget on top of your existing widgets
on the page, where it remains when users scroll.
•• - Size — Adjust the size of a widget by clicking and dragging
its edge.
521

=== PAGE 526 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Background Adjust the widget’s background display, such as the color,
opacity, brightness, and shape of the corners.
Fonts Adjust the fonts featured in your widget, including for the
headings and axis.
Interactions
Add extra configurations to the widget. The three options are:
••
Drill Down — Allows your data to be viewed at a lower
granularity.
••
Highlighting Rules — Allows you to highlight values within
your widget.
••
Calendar Events Tags — Allows you to add an event label to
your widget to emphasize surges or drops in the data. For
example, you can tag a huge surge in sales during Black
Friday as “Black Friday” on your graph.
Advanced Add Custom Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to your widget.
33.. Save your changes.
Advanced Customizations
Apply advanced customizations to your widgets such as forecasting, highlighting rules, and cascading
filters.
Forecasting
Forecasting allows you to activate sophisticated algorithms that predict the behavior of a specific
measurement.
Highlighting Rules
Highlighting rules enable you to highlight values in a widget, allowing you to track specific values
associated with measurements and dimensions. For example, you can use a highlighting rule to track
the click-through rate (CTR) of a specific campaign to make sure that you remain within your key
performance indicators (KPIs). Or you can use a highlighting rule to mark a specific media buy that
you want to monitor.
Cascading Filters
Cascading filters allow you to apply a filtering component such as a page filter or an interactive filter
widget to other interactive filter widgets. After you apply a cascading filter, the list of values in the
selected interactive filters widgets are filtered to only contain values that are relevant to the selected
value.
Forecasting
Forecasting allows you to activate sophisticated algorithms that predict the behavior of a specific
measurement.
522

=== PAGE 527 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Predicted values are displayed in their relevant dates, and the background color of the forecasting period
appears slightly darker, as you can see in this image:
For optimal forecasting, follow these key principles:
•
More data is better — The larger the window of time your forecast is based on, the greater the
likelihood for accuracy. For example, querying a weekly data slice from within a single month produces
a less accurate forecast than querying daily data from across an entire quarter.
•
Recurring patterns — Data that exhibit repeatable patterns yields more accurate and confident
forecasts.
•
Continuous data — Missing data periods in your query result in an estimation by the forecasting
algorithms, which can affect forecast accuracy.
•
Minimal number of outliers — Data sets with a minimum number of outlier values yield more accurate
and confident forecasts.
When activating forecasting, the platform automatically runs two different forecasting models and
selects the one with the highest quality.
The forecasting models use the R Forecasting Package and have two available algorithms:
•
ARIMA — Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average
•
ETS — Exponential Smoothing
The Forecasting Quality Score (FQC) is determined by calculating the Mean Absolute Scale Error (MASE)
for each of the algorithms and then normalizing it to get a score 1–100. The forecasting method with the
highest score is selected.
Activate Forecasting
Forecasting is available within the bar graph widget when using a date dimension (day, month, or
week).
Activate Forecasting
Forecasting is available within the bar graph widget when using a date dimension (day, month, or week).
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To activate forecasting Admin and Power User
11.. Click the measurement you want to add forecasting to.
22.. Enter the Options menu.
33.. To turn on forecasting, select Forecasting. These options are available:
••
Type Auto — Extend the widget time frame by 25%.
••
Exactly — Choose the number of days in the forecast length.
523

=== PAGE 528 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
••
Until — Choose the end date for the forecast period.
Forecast Length Defined automatically based on the data you have in your workspace.
The more data and repeating patterns you have in your workspace, the
better Marketing Cloud Intelligence’s forecasting capabilities.
Forecast Model The forecasting method with the highest-quality score is selected. You
can keep the automated process AUTO. Then, each time the widget is
loaded, the platform selects a different method depending on the
data retrieved and the method’s quality score. Alternatively, you can
specify a model that is always used for this measurement from the
dropdown list. The quality score for each method is displayed next to
the method’s name.
Ignore last X This option allows you to ignore the number of days inserted in the
forecasting calculation. This option is suitable for cases where the data
for the last number of days is incomplete and you don’t want to
include it in the calculation.
Show Description When checked, a tool-tip appears at the top-right side of the widget
displaying the selected forecasting method and its quality score for
each relevant measurement.
Highlighting Rules
Highlighting rules enable you to highlight values in a widget, allowing you to track specific values
associated with measurements and dimensions. For example, you can use a highlighting rule to track the
click-through rate (CTR) of a specific campaign to make sure that you remain within your key
performance indicators (KPIs). Or you can use a highlighting rule to mark a specific media buy that you
want to monitor.
Set Up a Highlighting Rule
You can create highlighting rules directly from the widget you want to add the rule to or from the
Highlighting Rules section under the Visualize tab. To create multiple rules at a time, use the
Highlighting Rules section.
Add a Highlighting Rule to a Widget
After you create a highlighting rule, add it to a widget.
Set Up a Highlighting Rule
You can create highlighting rules directly from the widget you want to add the rule to or from the
Highlighting Rules section under the Visualize tab. To create multiple rules at a time, use the Highlighting
Rules section.
524

=== PAGE 529 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To setup a highlighting rule Admin and Power User
11.. Navigate to Visualize.
22.. Select Highlighting Rules.
33.. Click Add New.
44.. Enter a unique name for your highlighting rule.
55.. Create your condition as follows:
Operator Select the operator you want to use: AND or OR.
This selection is relevant if you want to add more
than one condition to your rule.
Cell Value
Select the operator you want to use from these
options:
••
Equals
••
Not Equals
••
Contains
••
Not Contains
••
Start With
••
End With
••
Is Empty
••
Not Empty
••
>
••
=>
••
<
••
=<
Enter the value that you want to track. It can be
textual, such as the name of a campaign, or it
can be numeric, such as a CTR value.
Add To include another condition
66.. Configure how you want the highlighting rule to look. These options are available:
Text Color
Background & Frame Color
Dimension Fill Color
The preview box illustrates how the highlighting rule looks according to your workspace’s theme — dark
mode or light mode.
77.. Save your work.
525

=== PAGE 530 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
After the highlighting rule is saved, it appears in the highlighting rules list. From there, you can Edit,
Delete, and Delink your highlighting rules. When you delink a highlighting rule you, can only edit it in the
workspace you’re currently in – it can never be linked to the original workspace again. Delinking a
highlighting rule is irreversible.
Add a Highlighting Rule to a Widget
After you create a highlighting rule, add it to a widget.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To add a highlighting rule to a widget Admin and Power User
11.. Go to the Visualize tab.
22.. Select the dashboard page where the widget is located.
33.. Make sure that you’re in edit mode by clicking the pencil icon.
44.. Click the widget you want to add the highlighting rule to, which opens the Edit Widget dialog.
55.. Select the Design tab.
66.. Scroll down and click Interactions.
77.. Select the Highlighting Rules checkbox.
If highlighting rules exist, they appear in a list:
88.. Select the highlighting rule you want to add. The rule automatically appears in your widget after it’s
selected.
If you don’t have any existing highlighting rules, click the + sign to create a new rule. You’re
automatically directed to the Highlighting Rules tab. If you only want the highlighting rule to apply to
the dimensions or measurements in the widget, follow these steps:
aa.. Create your rule, and navigate to the Data tab.
bb.. Click the measurement or the dimension you want to apply the rule to.
cc.. Under Highlighting Rules, select the rule you want to add.
99.. To remove a highlighting rule, click the X next to the highlighting rule you want to remove.
1100.. When you’re done, make sure that you save your dashboard page, otherwise you lose the changes.
To create a rule that applies to dimensions and measurements simultaneously, create two separate rules,
and then apply them individually to the widget as explained previously.
For example, to highlight all banner placements that made less than 1,000 impressions, first create a rule
that highlights all placement names that contain the word Banner. Then create another rule that
highlights all impressions that are under 1,000. Attach these rules separately to the widget as a whole
under the Design tab, or attach them to the measurement or dimension under the Data tab
Cascading Filters
Cascading filters allow you to apply a filtering component such as a page filter or an interactive filter
526

=== PAGE 531 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
widget to other interactive filter widgets. After you apply a cascading filter, the list of values in the
selected interactive filters widgets are filtered to only contain values that are relevant to the selected
value.
You can only apply cascading filters within the same entity hierarchy, from the top hierarchy to the lower
hierarchies. The campaign entity and its attributes (campaign name and campaign advisor) can filter the
media buy entity and its attributes (media buy name and type). However, the media buy entity and its
attributes can’t filter the campaign entity and its attributes.
In the table, the filtering entity can filter level 1 and level 2, and filtered entity level 1 can only filter level
2.
Filtering Entity Filtered Entity level 1 Filtered Entity level 2
Campaign Media Buy
Sites Media Buy
Channels Media Buy
Channels Web Analytics Site Web Analytics Tag
Channels Social Element Social Post
Channels Email Campaign
Channels Generic Entities 1–5
Products Media Buy
Products Web Analytics Site Web Analytics Tag
Products Social Element Social Post
Products Email Campaign
Products Generic Entities 1–5
Custom Classification 1 Media Buy
Custom Classification 1 Web Analytics Site Web Analytics Tag
Custom Classification 1 Social Element Social Post
Custom Classification 1 Email Campaign
Custom Classification 1 Generic Entities 1–5
Custom Classification 2 Media Buy
Custom Classification 2 Web Analytics Site Web Analytics Tag
Custom Classification 2 Social Element Social Post
Custom Classification 2 Email Campaign
527

=== PAGE 532 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Custom Classification 2 Generic Entities 1–5
Social Element Traffic Source Social Element Social Post
Products Opportunity
Client Company Opportunity
GEO Company Opportunity
GEO Lead
Here’s an example:
The Media Buy Size interactive filter widget has the Cascading Filter checkbox selected, and it’s included
in the Apply to Specific Widgets list in the Campaign Advertiser interactive filter widget. The value
selected in the Campaign Advertiser interactive filter widget affects the values in the Media Buy Size
interactive filter widget.
In the table above, the Media Buy Size interactive filter widget alone affects the widget. Media Buy Size is
the only widget in the Apply to Specific Widgets list in the Campaign Advertiser interactive filter widget.
In the table, you see campaign advertiser values other than Travelight, the filter in the Campaign
Advertiser' interactive filter widget. That’s because the Campaign Advertiser interactive filter is applied to
the Media Buy Size interactive filter alone. It doesn’t affect any other widgets on the page.
Note
•
Cascading filters don’t apply to interactive date filters.
•
Cascading filters don’t work if the interactive filter widget the filters are applied to is set to Set
Values Manually.
Activate Cascading Filters
You can activate cascading filters in widgets.
Activate Cascading Filters
You can activate cascading filters in widgets.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To activate cascading filters Admin and Power User
11.. Go to the Visualize tab.
22.. Select the dashboard page where the widget is located.
33.. To enter edit mode, click the pencil icon.
528

=== PAGE 533 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
44.. Select the widget you want to apply the cascading filter to.
55.. In the Edit Widget settings, select the Cascading Filters checkbox.
66.. Save the page.
77.. To apply the filter from another interactive filter widget, go to that widget’s settings, and add the
interactive filter widget you want to apply the filter to.
88.. If there are other widgets that you want to apply the filter to, select the relevant widgets from the
Apply to Specific Widgets list.
Note It’s important to add all the widgets you want to apply the filter to from the Apply to Specific
Widgets list. After you add the cascaded interactive filter widget to the list, you also must add all
the other relevant widgets.
Widget Types
Marketing Cloud Intelligence offers three different types of widgets so you can visualize your data. The
creation process is dynamic according to the type of widget you select.
Chart Widgets
A chart widget shows data in various forms, such as a bar graph, line chart, and pie chart.
Interactive Widgets
Interactive widgets allow users who browse the page to toggle between measurements and
dimensions without modifying the data on the page.
Element Widgets
Element widgets are static elements that you can add to a page, such as rich text, videos, images, and
custom widgets created using JavaScript, CSS, or HTML.
Additional Widgets
You can find an array of widgets in the Visualize tab.
Chart Widgets
A chart widget shows data in various forms, such as a bar graph, line chart, and pie chart.
Create a Time-Comparison Bidimensional Bar Widget
A time-comparison bidimensional bar widget shows the performance of two measurements using a
dimension breakdown over time.
Create a Time-Comparison Bidimensional Bar Widget
A time-comparison bidimensional bar widget shows the performance of two measurements using a
dimension breakdown over time.
529

=== PAGE 534 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a chart widget: Admin or Power User
11.. Navigate to the Visualize tab.
22.. Select the dashboard page that you want to add a widget to.
33.. Click the pencil icon, and then click the + icon to add the widget.
44.. In the widget search box, enter time-comparison bidimensional bar.
55.. Add the two measurements that you want to compare.
66.. Add the dimensions that you want to show. You must add one temporal dimension and one non-
temporal dimension.
The first dimension added is shown as bars, and the second dimension added is shown as tabs at the
bottom of the widget. To switch the dimension display from bars to tabs, drag the dimension field up
or down.
77.. Select the comparison method. You can select either a predefined date range or enter a date range.
88.. Show Change is selected by default and shows the change amount in the widget. Deselect if you don't
want to show change in the widget.
99.. Select up to 10 decimal places.
1100.. To compare the data by week, select Compare by Week Number. For example, to compare the data
for the first week of each year.
1111.. To indicate that a drop in a measurement value is a negative change, select Revert Change Indicators.
See Also
Add a Filter to a Widget
Design Your Widget
Interactive Widgets
Interactive widgets allow users who browse the page to toggle between measurements and dimensions
without modifying the data on the page.
Create an Interactive Filter Widget
The interactive filter widget manages the filter settings for other widgets in a dynamic, flexible manner.
It displays all values contained in a given dimension, and it can be applied to specific widgets on the
page.
Apply Interactive Filters via a URL
Marketing Cloud Intelligence allows you to include the interactive filter values you want to apply to a
page inside the page URL. You can use this feature when you want to send pages that are filtered by
different values to different users. For example, if your page is filtered at a high-level view, you can
send different market heads this high-level view filtered by specific markets.
Use an Interactive Date Filter Widget
The interactive date filter widget offers an easy way to set and toggle between date ranges on your
entire page or for specific widgets of your choice. This option is available for admins, power users, and
530

=== PAGE 535 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
viewers. But one of its main objectives is to enable viewers to filter the page according to a specific
date range.
Create a Switch Widget
A switch widget is an interactive filter widget that is available in the widget library. You can switch or
add measurements or dimensions.
Create an Interactive Filter Widget
The interactive filter widget manages the filter settings for other widgets in a dynamic, flexible manner. It
displays all values contained in a given dimension, and it can be applied to specific widgets on the page.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To an interactive filter widget Admin and Power User
In the interactive filter’s search box, search for values to filter widgets by. If you need multiple values,
enter the exact term and then add a comma between each value.
A page can have several interactive filters, allowing the user to select a combination of filter settings.
11.. Navigate to the Visualize tab.
22.. To enter edit mode, click the pencil icon.
33.. To add a widget, click the + icon.
44.. In the Interactive section, select Filter.
55.. To add data to your widget, click the + icon.
Note
••
The interactive filter widget supports calculated dimensions. Setting up the calculated
dimension with a related measurement isn’t necessary. You can select dimensions only.
••
When the chosen dimension has more than 300 values, the widget displays an error message.
You can use a filter to narrow down the value number.
After you select a dimension these options are available:
•
Auto Set Value — Automatically lists the filter values displayed in the widget according to the
dimension selected.
•
Manual Set Values — Allows you to define the filter values displayed in the widget. For example, to
provide the option to filter by a few specific campaigns and not all campaigns in the workspace, define
the specific campaigns here.
11..
To enable this option, click the arrow next to the Auto Set Values field, and select the Manual Set
Values option.
22..
To edit the values, click the pencil icon. The Set Values Manually dialog appears.
33..
Insert the value you require, and then click Add Value.
44..
Select Equals or Contains in the Filtering Operator area. This selection affects the dimension values
included in the widget.
55..
Save your work.
531

=== PAGE 536 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Set Default Values — Set default values for your filter widget so that each time the page loads these
values appear. Select the values you require from the dropdown list.
Note If you have a long list of values, you can use the Search option to search for the values you
require.
•
Apply to Specific Widgets — Select the widgets you want the filter to apply to instead of the default to
all widgets on the page.
Note If you delete a widget that has an interactive filter widget applied to it, the interactive filter
widget settings revert to the default settings: applying the filter to all the widgets on the page.
Filtering issues can result after the page is saved and refreshed.
•
Cascading Filters — If you want to enable one filtering component (a page or an interactive filter
widget) to apply to other interactive filter widgets, select this checkbox.
•
Retain User Selection — Select this checkbox to save the interactive filter widget settings that are
applied per user to a dashboard page or collection. Now, when switching between collections or
dashboard pages, the same settings appear.
More options are available in the Filter and Data tab.
•
Filtering Display — Select how to display the filter selections within the interactive filter widget. These
suboptions are available:
- List — Lists out all the filter values within the widget.
- Drop Down — Places all the filter values in a dropdown list within the widget.
- Search Box — Places a search box within the widget, where you can search for the filter to apply.
Depending on the filtering display selected above, these options are available:
•
Selection Method — Define whether users can select a single filter selection or multiple filter
selections.
•
List Display — Select how to display the list within the widget: vertically or horizontally. This option only
applies to the list filtering display.
•
Filtering Operator — Define how the search box searches for values. Equals requires an exact match to
the value you’re searching for, while Contains searches for a value based on what’s entered. This
option only applies to the search box filtering display.
•
Limit Selection — Select this checkbox to limit the number of selections a user can make within the
interactive filter widget. This option is helpful when the creator of the dashboard page wants to
prevent too many filters being used simultaneously. This option is only available when Multiple is
selected in the Selection Method box. Insert the number you want to limit the selections to.
•
Show Search Box — Select this checkbox to display a search box and the list of values in the widget.
•
Value(s) must be selected — Select this checkbox to make sure that there is at least one selected value
in the interactive filter widget.
After creating an interactive filter widget, you can search for values to filter widgets within the widget’s
search box. If you need multiple values, enter the exact term and then add a comma between each
value.
532

=== PAGE 537 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Apply Interactive Filters via a URL
Marketing Cloud Intelligence allows you to include the interactive filter values you want to apply to a
page inside the page URL. You can use this feature when you want to send pages that are filtered by
different values to different users. For example, if your page is filtered at a high-level view, you can send
different market heads this high-level view filtered by specific markets.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To apply an interactive filter widget Admin and Power User
11.. Go to the page you want to apply the filter to, and then copy the ID of the interactive filter widget.
Note If there are no interactive filter widgets on the page, create them according to your needs.
22.. To copy the interactive filter ID, open the widget’s Options Menu, and select Info.
33.. To copy the widget’s ID, click Copy.
44.. Insert the relevant details into this snippet, and add it to the end of the page’s URL:
&wf [INTERACTIVE_FILTER_WIDGET_ID]=[Comma separated filter values]
Note The values added here are case-sensitive and must be an exact match to the values as they
appear in the interactive filter.
The example below shows what it should look like after inserting the parameters, this is for display
only.
Example https://platform.datorama.com/1111/visualize/11111/page/v2/
111111?viewMode=VIEW&wf12345=NA,LATAM You can also include multiple interactive filters in
the URL: https://platform.datorama.com/1111/visualize/11111/page/v2/
111111viewMode=VIEW&wf12345=NA&wf56789=Campaign12
See Also
Create an Interactive Filter Widget
Use an Interactive Date Filter Widget
The interactive date filter widget offers an easy way to set and toggle between date ranges on your entire
page or for specific widgets of your choice. This option is available for admins, power users, and viewers.
But one of its main objectives is to enable viewers to filter the page according to a specific date range.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To use an interactive date filter widget Admin and Power User
11.. Navigate to the Visualize tab, and enter edit mode by clicking the pencil icon.
22.. Add a new widget by clicking the + icon.
33.. You can search for the interactive date widget in the search bar, or from the left panel, under
Interactive, select the Date widget type.
533

=== PAGE 538 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
After you add the interactive date widget, you can configure the widget with these options:
•
Name — Name your widget.
•
Dimension — Select the dimension you want to filter by. You can choose any type of date dimension.
Note When setting a dimension other than the day dimension, the interactive date filter works
alongside the page’s date range. The interactive filter date range affects the widget's dimensions,
while the page’s date range affects the widget’s measurements.
For example, let’s say you’re setting the interactive date filter’s dimension to Campaign Start Date and
the date range to September 1 until September 7. The relevant widgets in the page display dimension
values that are linked to campaigns with a campaign start date within this date range. However, the
measurements displayed are according to the page’s date range.
•
Restrict Date Range — Select this checkbox to restrict the displayed data to a specific time period. The
chosen date range acts as a boundary for the user so that they can’t select any date range outside the
restricted time frame. If they do, they receive an error message.
•
Apply Default Values — Select this checkbox to set a default time range to the widget. The chosen
date range is applied to the widget by default whenever the page is loaded.
•
Apply to Specific Widgets — If you don’t want to apply the filter to the whole page, from the
dropdown list, select the widgets you want to apply the date filter to.
•
Retain User Selection — Select this checkbox to save the date widget settings that are applied per user
to a dashboard page or collection. Then, when switching between collections or dashboard pages, the
same settings appear.
Create a Switch Widget
A switch widget is an interactive filter widget that is available in the widget library. You can switch or add
measurements or dimensions.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create a switch widget Admin and Power User
The switch widget offers two work modes:
•
Switch — Instantly override dimensions and measurements in selected widgets or even at the page
level. For example, let’s say you want to toggle between several measurements among the widgets on
your page, such as total conversions and revenue. All you do is define the measurements or
dimensions you want to be able to switch, and decide at what page level or for specific widgets. After
adding a switch widget, you can change the widget view to display different fields while preserving the
widget’s settings. This mode is useful when you want to show static data from different points of view.
•
Add — Gain more page design flexibility by adding dimensions or measurements, rather than switching
them. In this mode, you can add dimensions or measurements one after the other without switching
out the existing dimensions and measurements. You can add dimensions or measurements from
multiple switch widgets in any order. You can also use multiple switch widgets in Add Mode and
organize dimensions or measurements into categories.
534

=== PAGE 539 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Note Using multiple switch widgets within the same target widgets is only supported in Add Mode.
Switch Mode works as a single switch per target widget.
11.. Navigate to Visualize.
22.. Select the dashboard, and then select the page you want to add a widget to.
33.. To edit the selected page, click the pencil icon.
44.. To add a new widget, click the + icon.
55.. Scroll down to the Interactive section and click Switch Dimensions or Switch Measurements.
A new switch widget is added to your page from which you can preview any change that is made to the
widget. These options are available in the Data tab:
•
Name — Name your widgets so that you can easily find it when using other features in the system, such
as advanced export. You can click the eye icon next to the widget name to hide your widget title from
displaying on the page.
•
Add data — To add data to the widget, click the + icon.
Note You can add up to 300 measurements or dimensions to a switch widget, allowing you to
present a large selection of options. Each widget has its own limit for the number of
measurements it can display.
•
Widget Mode — Select the switch widget mode you want to use:
- Switch — Select this mode to override dimensions or measurements within the target widgets, or to
all the widgets on the dashboard page.
- Add — Select this mode to add dimensions or measurements within the target widgets, or to all the
widgets on the dashboard page.
•
Set Default Values — Define values that can be set as the default-selected values for the switch widget
each time the page loads.
•
Apply to Specific Widgets — Apply the switch widget selections to specific widgets on the page. If no
widgets are selected, then the switch widget is applied to all the widgets on the page.
•
Retain User Selection — This checkbox is selected by default. It automatically saves the switch widget
settings that are applied per user to a page or dashboard. Then, when switching between dashboards
or pages, the same settings appear. If you don’t want to save the switch widget selections per user,
clear this checkbox.
After you finish configuring the Data tab, configure the Design tab. These options are available:
•
Filtering Display — Select how to display the filter selections, either in a list or in a dropdown box.
•
Selection Method — Define whether users can select one filter selection or multiple filter selections.
•
List Display — If you selected List as the filtering display, select how to display the list:
- Vertical — Lists the filter selections on individual rows.
- Horizontal — Lists the filter selections one after the other, on the same row.
•
Limit Selection — If you selected Multiple as the selection method, select this checkbox to limit the
number of selections a user can select within the switch widget. Then insert the number of options
you want to allow.
•
Show Search Box — This checkbox is selected by default. This option inserts a search box into the
widget so that you can search for specific dimensions or measurements to filter by. If you don’t want to
535

=== PAGE 540 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
add a search box to the widget, clear this checkbox.
•
Show Order Indicators — If you selected Multiple as the selection method, select this checkbox to
show the order of the dimensions or measurements that are applied to the switch widget. This
method is important when you have multiple dimensions and the order can affect the display, for
example in a table.
•
Use Date Dimensions As First Sort — This option is only relevant for switch dimensions widgets. Select
this checkbox to override the target widget first sort value, and set it as the date dimension instead.
•
Override Measurements Settings — This option is only relevant for switch measurement widgets.
Select this checkbox to override the default settings for the measurements in your workspace when
using switch mode. This option is useful for when you switch measurements in a chart and you want to
define the style of the measurements directly from the switch widget and not from the chart widget.
After you select the checkbox, navigate back to the Data tab and click on the measurement you want
to define the settings for. From here you can define the following:
- Color — The display color of the measurement.
- Display — The display of the measurement in the chart — bar, area, spline, or line.
- Type — The type of measurement — number, percentage, duration, or currency.
- Precision — The number of decimal places.
- Override Currency Symbol — The currency symbol to display.
- Friendly Formatting — The format to display large numbers, for example 1,000,000 as 1M.
- Highlighting Rules — The highlighting rule to apply to the measurement.
Create a Switch Currency Widget
A switch currency widget is a type of interactive filter widget available in the widget library. With this
widget you can switch the currency for all currency-metrics on the page.
Create a Switch Date Widget
A switch date widget is a type of interactive filter widget available in the widget library. With this widget
you can switch the date granularity of widgets used in the page.
See Also
Add Data to Your Widget
Create a Switch Currency Widget
A switch currency widget is a type of interactive filter widget available in the widget library. With this
widget you can switch the currency for all currency-metrics on the page.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a switch currency widget: Admin or Power User
11.. Navigate to Visualize.
22.. Select the dashboard, and then select the page you want to add a widget to.
33.. To edit the selected page, click the pencil icon.
44.. To add a new widget, click the + icon.
536

=== PAGE 541 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
55.. Scroll down to the Interactive section and click Switch Currency.
A new switch currency widget is added to your page from which you can preview any change that is
made to the widget. These options are available in the Data tab:
•
Source Currency — The default source currency is the currency setup in your workspace.
•
Target Currencies — These are the currencies you want to switch to. The default target currency is the
source currency. You can remove it once other currencies are added.
•
Set Default Values — Define the default currency used each time the page loads.
•
Apply to Specific Widgets — Apply the switch currency widget selections to specific widgets on the
page. If no widgets are selected, then the switch currency widget is applied to all the widgets on the
page.
•
Retain User Selection — This checkbox is selected by default. It automatically saves the switch
currency widget settings that are applied per user to a page or dashboard. Then, when switching
between dashboards or pages, the same settings appear. If you don’t want to save the switch widget
selections per user, clear this checkbox.
Note Currency conversions only apply to mapped currency type measurements. Therefore, for the
conversion to work on calculated measurements, they must contain mapped currency type
measurements.
After you finish configuring the Data tab, configure the Design tab. These options are available:
•
List Display — If you selected List as the filtering display, select how to display the list:
- Vertical — Lists the filter selections on individual rows.
- Horizontal — Lists the filter selections one after the other, on the same row.
•
Show Search Box — Select to insert a search box into the widget so that you can search for specific
currencies to filter by.
You can further tailor the appearance of the switch currency widgets on your page with the options
available in the design tab.
Watch this video for more information about the switch currency widget:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/nzs9XhwKPnfU1EM3mii2S2?
See Also
Design Your Widget
Video: Switch Currency Widget
Create a Switch Date Widget
A switch date widget is a type of interactive filter widget available in the widget library. With this widget
you can switch the date granularity of widgets used in the page.
537

=== PAGE 542 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a switch date widget: Admin or Power User
11.. Navigate to Visualize.
22.. Select the dashboard, and then select the page you want to add a widget to.
33.. To edit the selected page, click the pencil icon.
44.. To add a new widget, click the + icon.
55.. Scroll down to the Interactive section and click Switch Date.
A new switch date widget is added to your page from which you can preview any change that is made to
the widget. These options are available in the Data tab:
•
Add data to your widget — Select the date-type dimensions you want to add to the widget.
•
Set date granularity — Select the granularity level of the date field you want to switch to if more than
one date-type field is available in the target widgets.
- Least Granular — Select this to change the least granular date in the target widget. For example, if
day, week and year are in the target widget, day will be switched.
- Most granular — Select this to change the most granular date in the target widget. For example, if
day, week and year are in the target widget, year will be switched.
•
Set Default Values — Define the default date period used each time the page loads.
•
Apply to Specific Widgets — Apply the switch date widget selections to specific widgets on the page. If
no widgets are selected, then the switch date widget is applied to all the widgets on the page.
•
Retain User Selection — This checkbox is selected by default. It automatically saves the switch date
widget settings that are applied per user to a page or dashboard. Then, when switching between
dashboards or pages, the same settings appear. If you don’t want to save the switch widget selections
per user, clear this checkbox.
Note
•
The switch date widget only switches date type dimensions.
•
Only dimensions from the Date entity can be added to the switch date widget. However, when a
custom calendar is in use, you can also add Custom Date dimensions.
After you finish configuring the Data tab, configure the Design tab. These options are available:
•
List Display — If you selected List as the filtering display, select how to display the list:
- Vertical — Lists the filter selections on individual rows.
- Horizontal — Lists the filter selections one after the other, on the same row.
•
Show Search Box — Select to insert a search box into the widget so that you can search for specific
date periods to filter by.
You can further tailor the appearance of the switch date widgets on your page with the options available
in the design tab.
538

=== PAGE 543 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
See Also
Design Your Widget
Element Widgets
Element widgets are static elements that you can add to a page, such as rich text, videos, images, and
custom widgets created using JavaScript, CSS, or HTML.
Create a Rich Text Widget
The rich text widget allows you to enter freestyle text in your page and edit it with an editor. You can
also make a query and then display the results of that query within the widget. You can also style the
text any way you want.
Create an Image Widget
The image widget provides you with the ability to upload an image into your page. You can either
upload a file or link to a URL.
Create a Headers Widget
A headers widget is a preconfigured custom widget that allows you to quickly and easily insert a
header on your page. The header can contain a logo and links to specific widgets on the page, links
within Marketing Cloud Intelligence, or links to external web pages. Use a headers widget to introduce
the content displayed on the page, to brand the page, to insert links to other pages, or to scroll to
specific areas on the page.
Create an Apply Filter Widget
Use the apply filter widget to update a page after you apply all the filters to the page, instead of
updating the page values after applying each filter. When using the apply filter widget, click Apply after
you select all the filters you want to apply to the page and the page updates.
Create a Map Widget
Map widgets illustrate the geographical location of a data variable. Color progression or bubble size is
used to represent value in each region of the map—the darker the color, or the bigger the bubble, the
higher the value. You can use map widgets to illustrate which areas within selected locations have the
most or least data. For example, where in the world do you gain the most page views.
Create a Custom Widget
Custom widget is a complete development interface within Marketing Cloud Intelligence collections
that allows nearly limitless dashboard page design and behavior. It includes HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
coding environments, with access to a full library of functions that provide ready-to-use page
visualization, navigation, and API solutions.
Create a Rich Text Widget
The rich text widget allows you to enter freestyle text in your page and edit it with an editor. You can also
make a query and then display the results of that query within the widget. You can also style the text any
way you want.
539

=== PAGE 544 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create a widget Admin and Power User
The most common uses of rich text widgets are to:
•
Write notes and add commentary to pages.
•
Dynamically return query performance results in a textual manner.
•
Create simple headlines or sections.
11.. Navigate to Visualize.
22.. Select the dashboard, and then the page you want to add a widget to.
33.. To edit the selected page, click the pencil icon.
44.. To add a new widget, click the + icon.
55.. Scroll down to the Elements section, and click Rich Text.
After you add a rich text widget, customize the information you want to display in the widget. The rich
text widget is set up just like all other widgets and offers basic editing options. If you want to create a
widget using HTML, CSS, or Server-Side JavaScript, use a custom widget instead.
Note It’s possible to switch a rich text widget to a custom widget under the Data tab when editing
the widget. Selecting the custom widget icon takes all the content from your rich text widget and
converts it into code in the custom widget. It’s important to note that this process is
irreversible—you can’t switch a custom widget back to a rich text widget.
66.. After you create a rich text widget, customize the information displayed in the widget by opening the
Rich Text Editor. Click the pencil icon next to Rich Text Editor.
From here you can customize the information displayed in the widget. These options are available:
•
Query — Queries your data based on the tokens selected and displays the result in the widget.
Syntax: {Query(Field Name, type, delimiter)}
Example: {Query(Campaign Name, none, @)} displays the following:
•
Filter — Displays the filters applied to the widget.
Syntax: {Filter(Field Name, type, delimiter)}
Example: {Filter(Campaign Name, list, )} displays the following:
•
Table — Displays a table of the fields selected in the FIELDS section. To display the table, you must
select whether to include a Total row by including true or false in the token. True displays the Total
row, false doesn’t.
Syntax: {Table(true/false)}
Example: {Table(true)} displays the following:
These query tokens can be used:
•
Dimension – {Query.Dimension Name} — Displays all the dimension values available in the widget.
•
Measurement – {Query.Measurement Name} — Displays all the measurement values available in the
540

=== PAGE 545 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
widget.
•
Table– {Query.Table} — Displays all the dimensions and measurements in a table format. For the type,
enter your preferred display method. These options are available:
- none (Concatenated)
- bullet
- list
- Number
For the delimiter, enter how you want the values to be separated when using concatenate values.
When using concatenating values, the display is a string of values separated by a separator of your
choice.
Note
•
Every dimension and measurement you include in the editor section must also be entered in the
FIELDS section.
•
A query token retrieves all the available values for that query. To narrow the results, add a filter to
the widget.
See Also
Create a Widget
Add Data to Your Widget
Create a Custom Widget
Add a Filter to a Widget
Create an Image Widget
The image widget provides you with the ability to upload an image into your page. You can either upload
a file or link to a URL.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create a widget Admin and Power User
11.. Navigate to Visualize.
22.. Select the dashboard and then the page you want to add a widget to.
33.. To edit the selected page, click the pencil icon.
44.. To add a new widget, click the + icon.
55.. Scroll down to the Elements section, and click Image.
A new image widget is added to your page from which you can preview any change made to the widget.
These editing options are available in the Data tab:
•
Name — Name your widgets so that you can easily find your widget when using other features in the
system, such as advanced export. You can click the eye icon next to the widget name to hide your
widget title from displaying on the page.
•
Choose Image — To link to an image, enter the URL where the image is located. Or upload an image
541

=== PAGE 546 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
from your computer. You can either drag the image or click the box to browse for the image.
•
Auto fit Image — The image is automatically scaled for you. To change the scaling of the image within
your widget, clear the Auto fit image checkbox, and then adjust the scale of your image accordingly.
•
Alignment — Select how you want the image to be aligned in the widget. It can be aligned left, center,
or right.
•
Link to — Link your image to a specific URL so that when page users click the image, they’re directed to
that URL.
Within the Design tab, all the standard widget design options are available.
See Also
Design Your Widget
Create a Headers Widget
A headers widget is a preconfigured custom widget that allows you to quickly and easily insert a header
on your page. The header can contain a logo and links to specific widgets on the page, links within
Marketing Cloud Intelligence, or links to external web pages. Use a headers widget to introduce the
content displayed on the page, to brand the page, to insert links to other pages, or to scroll to specific
areas on the page.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create a widget Admin and Power User
11.. Navigate to Visualize.
22.. Select the dashboard and then the page you want to add a widget to.
33.. To edit the selected page, click the pencil icon.
44.. To add a new widget, click the + icon.
55.. Scroll down to the Elements section, and click Headers.
A new headers widget is added to your page. These editing options are available in the Data tab:
•
Name — Name your widgets so that you can easily find your widget when using other features in the
system, such as Advanced Export. You can click the eye icon next to the widget name to hide your
widget title from displaying on the page.
•
Select the type of header you want to use. To see additional options, click More. Each header type has
slightly different configurations.
•
To open the editor window, click the pencil icon next to Custom Widget Editor. From here you can
further customize the information displayed in the widget. The editor window has a predefined
configuration already set up within the Server-Side JavaScript (JS) box so you can easily configure the
widget. The areas to edit are either colored in brown or blue. These options are available:
- Gradient colors — Input the color hex code for the color you want to use for the gradient color of
the widget. For example: const firstGradientColor = '#243B55';
Note Use the colors from your page’s InstaBrand theme by copying the hex numbers within the
Color Palette section within the Design tab when editing the page. Click the color you want to
542

=== PAGE 547 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
use and copy the hex number.
- When using the Photo header type, you can change the background image instead of the gradient
colors and then customize the background size, position and repeat. Insert the URL of the image
you want to use as your background image . For example: const backgroundImage =
'https://datorama—public—resources.s3.amazonaws.com/
photo—header—background.png'
- Logo — Insert the URL of the image you want to use as your logo. For example: const
logoImageSrc = 'https://datorama—public—resources.s3.amazonaws.com/logo.svg'
If you don’t want a logo in the header, delete this code from the JS editor window: // Logo image
source address const logoImageSrc =
'https://datorama—public—resources.s3.amazonaws.com/logo.svg';
•
Links — You can add a link in your header to an external URL or to a widget on the page. The code is
divided into three areas, which you can customize according to your needs:
- The destination link:
To link to a URL, add the URL between the quotation marks. For example:
'https://salesforce.com'
To link to a widget on the page, insert the widget ID instead of the word ‘null. For example:
scrollToWidget: 123456
Note To find the widget ID, click the relevant widget’s options menu marked by the three dots
in the top-right corner of the widget, and select Info. To copy the widget’s ID, click the copy
icon.
- The display title:
Insert the name of choice between the quotation marks.
For example: title: 'Salesforce'
- The display color:
Inset the hex color code between the quotation marks, after the #.
For example: color: '#000'
•
You can then enter the relevant codes for the next two links.
The next two links contain the same code as the first link, just without the descriptions.
If you don’t want links in your header, delete this code from the JS editor window:
// Change this array to add or update links
const links = [
{
href: '#', // The link URL to be navigated on click
scrollToWidget: null, // Insert the widget ID
title: '01 | Link 1', // The name of the link
color: '#FFF' // The color of the link
},
{ href: '#', scrollToWidget: null, title: '02 | Link 2', color: '#FFF' },
{ href: '#', scrollToWidget: null, title: '03 | Link 3', color: '#FFF' }
If you want just one link, delete the code for the other two links:
543

=== PAGE 548 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
{ href: '#', scrollToWidget: null, title: '02 | Link 2', color: '#FFF' },
{ href: '#', scrollToWidget: null, title: '03 | Link 3', color: '#FFF' }
Note If you want to add more links, copy and paste the previous code within the same section,
and change accordingly.
•
After you insert all the required sections, click Apply, and then save your page. The rest of the widget
settings are the same as a custom widget.
See Also
Create a Custom Widget
Create an Apply Filter Widget
Use the apply filter widget to update a page after you apply all the filters to the page, instead of updating
the page values after applying each filter. When using the apply filter widget, click Apply after you select
all the filters you want to apply to the page and the page updates.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create a widget Admin and Power User
11.. Navigate to Visualize.
22.. Select the dashboard and then the page you want to add a widget to.
33.. To edit the selected page, click the pencil icon.
44.. To add a new widget, click the + icon.
55.. Scroll down to the Elements section, and click Apply Filter.
After you add the apply filter widget, these options are available within the Data tab:
•
Name — Name your widgets so that you can easily find your widget when using other features in the
system, such as Advanced Export. You can click the eye icon next to the widget name to hide your
widget title from displaying on the page.
•
Text — The default text in the button is Apply Filters. Enter the text you want to use instead.
•
Select Linked Filters — Select the interactive widgets you want to link to the apply filters button from
the dropdown list.
•
Highlight Linked Widgets — This checkbox is selected by default and highlights the widgets that are
linked to the apply filter widget when hovering over the apply filter button. This option helps users see
which interactive widgets are linked to the apply filter button. If you don’t want to highlight the linked
widgets, clear this checkbox.
Within the Design tab, you can customize the look of the widget, including the font, widget stickiness,
and background color.
You can change the size of the widget by dragging its edges to the size you want and then moving the
widget to the desired location on the page.
544

=== PAGE 549 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
See Also
Design Your Widget
Create a Map Widget
Map widgets illustrate the geographical location of a data variable. Color progression or bubble size is
used to represent value in each region of the map—the darker the color, or the bigger the bubble, the
higher the value. You can use map widgets to illustrate which areas within selected locations have the
most or least data. For example, where in the world do you gain the most page views.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create a widget Admin and Power User
11.. Navigate to Visualize.
22.. Select the dashboard and then the page you want to add a widget to.
33.. To edit the selected page, click the pencil icon.
44.. To add a new widget, click the + icon.
55.. Within the Charts section, click Maps.
A new map widget is added to your page. These editing options are available within the Data tab:
•
Name — Name your widgets so that you can easily find your widget when using other features in the
system, such as Advanced Export. You can click the eye icon next to the widget name to hide your
widget title from displaying on the page. Select the type of map you want to use. To see additional
options, such as different regions or countries, click More.
•
Map — Alternatively, you can select or search for the country or region you want to display.
•
Additional Granularity — Add further granularity to the map by breaking it down by City or Zip Code. If
selected, these options are available:
- Load when zoomed — Selecting this checkbox aggregates the data at the city or ZIP code level
when zoomed in to an area. You can select to load all the granularity levels even when you’re not
zoomed in. However, this selection adds a limit of up to 400 measurement values to ensure that the
widget’s performance stays intact.
- Include Partially Mapped Data — By default, Marketing Cloud Intelligence cleans unknown data.
When you select this checkbox, you add this data back in and include the data in the map widget.
•
Add data to the map widget. You can add one measurement and one dimension. Select the
measurement you want to display by clicking the + icon. A dimension is automatically selected
depending on the map you add. However, you can remove the selected dimension and add a different
one.
Note When you select a regional map, a filter is automatically added to the widget to filter the
data to the countries within the region. You can add or remove countries within the filter tab.
After you finish configuring the Data tab, you can configure the Design tab. These options are available:
•
Show Legend — Select this checkbox to display a bar in the Y axis that illustrates the meaning of the
color gradient within the map widget.
545

=== PAGE 550 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Floating Legend — Select this checkbox to make the legend float on top of the map. When this
checkbox isn’t selected, the legend appears static underneath the map.
•
Legend Position — Select where you want your legend to appear within the widget. You can position
the legend horizontally or vertically.
•
Data Layer Style — Select how the geolocations you have data for are displayed. These suboptions are
available:
- Area — Colors the entire area that has data. The more data you have in the geolocation, the stronger
the color is.
- Bubbles — Bubbles appear in the center of the area you have data. The more data you have in the
geolocation, the larger and more opaque the bubble is.
After you finish customizing your map widget, these options are available while viewing the widget:
•
You can double-click an area on the map to zoom in to that area. There are also zoom in and zoom out
buttons in the widget.
Note If an admin user saves the page while the widget is zoomed in, the widget remains zoomed
in.
•
You can search for specific areas within the search bar in the widget. The results in the dropdown list
are sorted by the measurement value, so you can always find the most impactful regions fast.
See Also
Design Your Widget
Create a Custom Widget
Custom widget is a complete development interface within Marketing Cloud Intelligence collections that
allows nearly limitless dashboard page design and behavior. It includes HTML, CSS, and JavaScript coding
environments, with access to a full library of functions that provide ready-to-use page visualization,
navigation, and API solutions.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create a widget Admin and Power User
This functionality allows admins and power users to create and configure design options that otherwise
wouldn’t be readily available in a custom widget. For example, you can add a color picker design setting,
allowing the end user to select colors from a predefined color palette to match brand colors.
If you’re an admin, you can install preconfigured custom widgets from the Marketplace. For more
information, see Install Custom Widgets.
11.. Navigate to Visualize.
22.. Select the dashboard and then the page you want to add a widget to.
33.. To edit the selected page, click the pencil icon.
44.. To add a new widget, click the + icon.
55.. Under Elements, select Custom.
546

=== PAGE 551 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
66.. Classify your widget by selecting a widget type from the dropdown menu.
77.. Click the Custom Widget Editor icon to open the custom widget editor dialog panel.
88.. In the snippet library, click the JavaScript option.
99.. Click Custom Design Settings to open the custom design settings options panel. There are two main
options that are crucial to creating your custom design options:
Populates the functions you want displayed in
the design tab of your custom widget. To add
Set Custom Design
functions to your widget, you must add the Set
Custom Design API first.
Imports the design settings values from the
Get Custom Design panel into the custom widget, where they can be
applied.
1100.. To add Set Custom Design, click the plus + icon.
1111.. Now you can add the desired field controls into the Set Custom Design as an array by clicking the plus
+ icon next to the desired field. The input is displayed in the Widget Design tab. These functions are
available:
Input Field Adds a text field.
Checkbox Adds checkboxes with multiple options to select.
Adds a radio button, also known as an option
Radio
button.
Adds a dropdown menu where you can select
Select
predefined options.
Adds a slider field, which you can use to
Slider Field determine a color’s opacity, from transparent to
opaque.
Adds a color picker, which you can use to offer
Color Picker
custom colors associated with your brand.
Adds a title, which you can use to organize or
Title
group sections in your widget.
Adds a visual element that you can use to help
Separator
organize your tab.
Adds a date picker to the design tab, which you
Date Picker can use to exclude specific dates or drill down to
a specific date.
The Get Custom Design setting is used to read the values the user configured in the design tab, which
enables you to write code that reacts to these selections
547

=== PAGE 552 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
1122.. When you’re finished, click Apply.
Add EMI APIs to Custom Widgets
Einstein Marketing Insights (EMI) is an insights discovery tool used to analyze a data set and uncover
key highlights that affect your performance in a positive or negative manner. This tool enables you to
become proactive with your marketing efforts. The EMI APIs allow you to pull your insight bots and
insights into custom widgets.
Add EMI APIs to Custom Widgets
Einstein Marketing Insights (EMI) is an insights discovery tool used to analyze a data set and uncover key
highlights that affect your performance in a positive or negative manner. This tool enables you to
become proactive with your marketing efforts. The EMI APIs allow you to pull your insight bots and
insights into custom widgets.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To add EMI APIs to widgets Admin and Power User
There are three EMI APIs created for custom widgets: Get Bot Details, List Bots, and Get Bot Results.
11.. In a custom widget, click the edit icon to open the Custom Widget Editor dialog panel.
22.. In the snipped library, click Javascript.
33.. At the bottom, click Einstein Marketing Insights API.
44.. To add the API, click the plus + icon next to the API name.
•
Get Bot Details — This API returns the bot parameters in JSON format. For example, bot name, types
of analyses it runs, and its scheduling. When adding the snippet, insert the bot ID in the code so the
query knows which bot information to pull. The bot ID can be found in the bot URL. Select the desired
bot, then copy the ID from the URL.
•
List Bots — This API returns a list of available bots and their general details in the current workspace in
JSON format. For example, bot name, KPI, date, and the types of analyses it runs.
Here is an example of JS code you can copy and paste to utilize the List Bots API:
Note Be sure to change the bot id to the bot id you want to retrieve data for. This code snippet
returns raw data. You can customize the code to create a visual display of your choice.
DA.api.EMI.getBotsSummary({cb: (err, data) => {
var toPrint = "";
data.bots.forEach((item, i) => {
toPrint+= JSON.stringify(data.bots[i]) + "<br><br>"
})
document.getElementById("demo").innerHTML = toPrint;
}});
548

=== PAGE 553 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Get Bot Results — This API extracts the actual insights from a specific bot in JSON format. It includes
data for each insight, such as the dimension and value of the insight, its performance, and its volume.
Insert the bot ID that you want to populate. The bot ID appears in the URL.
Here is an example of JS code you can copy and paste to utilize the Get Bot Results API:
Note Be sure to change the bot id to the bot id you want to retrieve data for. This code snippet
returns raw data. You can customize the code to create a visual display of your choice.
DA.api.EMI.getInsightsByBotId({botId: 55149, cb: (err, data) => {
var toPrint = "";
data.insights.forEach((item, i) => {
toPrint+= JSON.stringify(data.insights[i]) + "<br><br>"
})
document.getElementById("demo").innerHTML = toPrint;
}});
If you want to populate several bots, dedicate each API call to a single bot by inserting the desired ID
into each API.
Here’s a video about custom widgets:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/gtykw34Qi6SFSmgfgN2GxJ
Additional Widgets
You can find an array of widgets in the Visualize tab.
Create a Goal Widget
After you create a goal in your workspace, you can visualize the goal using a goal widget. A goal widget
can only be set up if you have a goal in your workspace.
Create a Goal Widget
After you create a goal in your workspace, you can visualize the goal using a goal widget. A goal widget
can only be set up if you have a goal in your workspace.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
Goal values are calculated by the Average Daily Goal Value multiplied by Elapsed days and appear
differently depending on the selected widget.
In Goal Table Widgets, values are calculated using the number of days in the widget or page date range.
For example, if today is December 27, 2023, but you're viewing a date range of December 1-31, the goal
calculation uses 31 elapsed days.
In Goal Gauge Widget values never exceed the current number of elapsed days when calculating the
549

=== PAGE 554 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
goal. For example, if today is December 27, 2023, but you're viewing a date range of December 1-31, the
goal calculation uses 27 elapsed days
.
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a widget: Admin or Power User
11.. In the Visualize tab, double-click the page that you want to create a goal widget on.
22.. Click the pencil icon, and then click the plus icon.
33.. To add a widget, select the goals widget from the Add Widget menu. The default widget for goals is a
gauge.
44.. To change the widget type, click the suggested options next to the gauge (1).
55.. To view additional widget options, click more (2). Add the measurements and dimension, or add both
(3).
66.. To create a Goal Table widget, select the goal table from the goal widget menu.
77.. Name your goal, and add pacing fields. Pacing measurements allow you to add granularity and focus
on the performance of your goals. Adding a pacing field affects the visualization of the goal widget.
These pacing measurements are available:
The value of the measurement that the goal is
targeting. For example, if the goal measurement
Measurement Value
is clicks and the goal is set to reach 200 clicks,
the measurement value is 200.
Period Start The goal start date.
Period End The goal end date.
The target number the goal measurement is set
Goal Value
to achieve.
How much of target value is left in order to
Remaining Value
achieve the goal.
Period Days Elapsed How many days have passed since the start date.
Period Days Left How many days are left until the end date.
The number the measurement must reach daily
in order to reach the goal. (Total goal value -
Daily Target
current measurement value) / # of days left =
Daily Target
The daily average achieved up until now. To
Daily Average Value calculate this number, divide the measurement
value by the period days elapsed.
550

=== PAGE 555 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The number the measurement must reach every
Daily Average Goal
day in order to achieve the goal.
Calculates the predicted value that the
measurement reaches at the end of the goal
period or at the end of the page or widget’s date
range.
(Total relevant Measurement’s value until today *
Total Days for the goal’s period / # of days
Predicted Value
passed since the goal’s start period = Predicted)
If the goal’s period ends after the page or the
widget’s defined date range, the total days for the
goal’s period are calculated through the last day
of the widget or page’s date range.
Delivery rate The current performance rate of the goal.
88.. To apply filters to your goal, click the Filters tab on the Add Widget menu.
99.. To inherit the page filters, select Inherit Page Filters checkbox. This checkbox allows the goal widget
to take on the same date range as the page. However, data is only displayed if the page’s date range is
within the goal’s date range.
For example, your goal’s date range is between January 2022 and June 2022. If the goal is set to
inherit page filters, and the page is set to display data between January and February 2022, the goal
automatically updates and reflects that date range. If the page is set to display data for July 2022, the
goal doesn’t display any data because this date range is outside of the goal’s defined date range.
1100.. Save your Table Goal widget.
See Also
Goals
Drill-Down Hierarchies
You can drill down dimensions in a bar graph or pie chart widget to view data at a lower granularity. You
can use the default system dimension hierarchies or create your own.
Create a Drill-Down Hierarchy
You can choose the dimensions to include in a hierarchy.
Add a Drill-Down Hierarchy to a Widget
You can add a hierarchy to a bar graph or pie chart widget.
Default Dimension Hierarchies
When using drill-down, these system hierarchies are used, listed from the highest to lowest dimension
in the hierarchy.
551

=== PAGE 556 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a Drill-Down Hierarchy
You can choose the dimensions to include in a hierarchy.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create a drill-down hierarchy Admin
11.. On the widget’s Design tab, click Interactions.
22.. Click Drill Down.
33.. Click the + sign, and name your hierarchy.
44.. Click Add, and list the dimensions in the hierarchy order, with the highest level at the top.
The new hierarchy must include all the dimensions relevant to the hierarchy.
55.. Click Save.
Add a Drill-Down Hierarchy to a Widget
You can add a hierarchy to a bar graph or pie chart widget.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To add a drill-down hierarchy to a widget Admin and Power User
11.. On the Visualize tab, select the bar graph or pie chart widget.
22.. Click the edit icon, and then click the Design tab.
33.. Click Interactions, and select Drill Down.
44.. In the dropdown, select the hierarchy.
Default Dimension Hierarchies
When using drill-down, these system hierarchies are used, listed from the highest to lowest dimension in
the hierarchy.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
Available in:
Date Hierarchy
•
Year
•
Month
•
Day
552

=== PAGE 557 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Display Hierarchy – Ads Data Model
•
Campaign Name
•
Site Name
•
Media Buy Name
Search Hierarchy – Search Keyword Data Model
•
Campaign Name
•
Site Name
•
Media Buy Name
•
Search Keyword
Web Analytics Hierarchy – Web Analytics Pages Data Model
•
Web Analytics Site
•
Web Analytics Page Path
•
Device Browser
Display Conversions Hierarchy – Conversions Tags Data Model
•
Campaign Name
•
Site Name
•
Media Buy Name
•
Creative Name
•
Conversion Tag Name
Search Conversions Hierarchy – Conversions with Keywords Data Model
•
Campaign Name
•
Site Name
•
Media Buy Name
•
Search Keyword
•
Conversion Tag Name
Products Hierarchy – Product Data Model
•
Product Group
•
Product Category
•
Product Sub Category
•
Product Name
553

=== PAGE 558 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
SmartLenses in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
SmartLenses are predefined dashboard pages that are created for you after a supported data source is
created for the first time. After the data source is processed and data is retrieved, a notification appears
with a link to the SmartLenses dashboard page. All SmartLenses dashboard pages are hosted under one
designated SmartLenses collection.
SmartLenses are available for these data sources:
•
Adform
•
Adroll
•
Adwords
•
Airpush
•
AOL 1-Video
•
Appnexus
•
Atlas
•
Bing
•
Brandwatch DV360
•
DV360 TrueView
•
Facebook Ads
•
Facebook Insights
•
Google Analytics
•
Google Search Ads 360
•
Google Campaign Manager
•
Google Search Console
•
Hubspot
•
Kochava
•
LINE
•
LinkedIn Ads
•
LinkedIn Company
•
Mailchimp
•
Marketing Cloud Account Engagement (Pardot)
•
MediaMath
•
Moat-Display
•
Outbrain
•
Plista
•
Salesforce Email Studio (ExactTarget)
•
Sizmek
•
Taboola
•
TikTok
•
Twitter Ads
•
Twitter Social
•
Yahoo Gemini
•
YouTube Ads (by Adwords)
•
YouTube Insights
554

=== PAGE 559 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
SmartLenses View
SmartLenses visualizations are built to match industry standards, tailored for the data source in question.
The SmartLenses view changes according to the data source and, in some cases, according to the
extended properties set up in the data source. For example, a Facebook data stream with no extended
properties creates a different dashboard page view than a Facebook data stream with the get country
checkbox selected.
Some data sources generate multiple SmartLenses dashboard page to provide a more convenient view.
For example, the Google Ads data source creates a general view dashboard page and a keyword level
dashboard page with a more in-depth view.
SmartLenses Settings
The SmartLenses collection has sharing permissions set to admins only, and all dashboard pages are set
to unpublished. You can change these permissions to make the SmartLenses available to other users or
copy these dashboard pages to a collection accessible to them.
The SmartLenses dashboard pages are filtered on the relevant data source and show data from all data
streams created for that data source. The dashboard page date range is the previous month, but you can
change the page’s settings.
Deleting SmartLenses Pages and Collections
If you delete a SmartLenses dashboard page, the dashboard page isn’t created in the workspace again. If
you delete the SmartLenses collection, a collection is created the next time a SmartLenses dashboard
page is created.
Watch this video about utilizing smart lenses:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/dw4d39b3hAM5N6hPthVo7o?
Watch this video about installing smart lenses:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/cNxhcR9r2H98HVLqF46kyS?
Share and Export Pages and Widgets
After you’re done creating and designing your page, you’re ready to publish and share it with others. Use
the Share option to share pages and widgets from the same place.
Share Pages and Widgets
You can share pages and widgets to collaborate with colleagues and clients.
Share and Embed Dashboard Pages and Widgets
After creating a visualization of your data, you can embed it as a page or widget in a third-party site or
555

=== PAGE 560 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
share a link with stakeholders.
Download Dashboard Pages and Widgets
You can download dashboard pages and widgets so you can share them with multiple people within
your organization. This download produces a local version of your dashboard page or widget.
Use Advanced Export
Advanced export gives you the power to design the layout of your page before exporting it and
customizing it for print, presentations, or emails. A layout includes a page’s structure and saved
settings so that you can reuse it in the future. You can maintain different layouts based on your use
case, including interactive filtersets, and only include relevant materials.
Scheduled Reports
Admin and power users can create a scheduled report so that a collection, dashboard page, or widget
is sent to them at a specific time. This feature is especially useful to send executive overviews
automatically or to send a weekly report to stakeholders without manually downloading and sending
the report.
Share Pages and Widgets
You can share pages and widgets to collaborate with colleagues and clients.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To share dashboard pages and widgets Admin and Power User
11.. Navigate to the dashboard or widget that you want to share. To select multiple widgets, press the
Command key (macOS) or shift/ctrl (Windows).
22.. Click the Share icon, and select how you want to share it.
There are three available options: Slack, Email and Embed.
33.. Define the sharing fields.
44.. Click Share.
55.. (Optional) To share the dashboard with interactive filters applied, select Include interactive filters.
66.. To create a rule to trigger a sharing action, click Create Rule.
Share a Widget or Page with Marketing Cloud Intelligence Insights for Slack
You can share widgets and pages with Marketing Cloud Intelligence Insights for Slack to collaborate
with colleagues and clients.
Share to Email
You can share widgets and pages via email to collaborate with colleagues and clients.
Share a Widget or Page with Marketing Cloud Intelligence Insights for Slack
You can share widgets and pages with Marketing Cloud Intelligence Insights for Slack to collaborate with
colleagues and clients.
556

=== PAGE 561 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To share in Slack Admin and Power User
11.. Select the page or widget you want to share, and click the Share icon.
22.. Click Slack, and enter the sharing information.
aa.. Enter the Slack channel (1). Private channels and DMs aren’t supported.
bb.. Add a message (2) to describe what you’re sharing.
cc.. Select Send to send the message with a predefined name (3). This option appears only when
defined in the configuration settings.
dd.. You can also add a link to the page you’re sharing (4).
ee.. Select Include interactive filters to share the dashboard with interactive filters applied (5).
ff.. Preview what you’re sending (6).
33.. Click Share.
Watch this video about Marketing Cloud Intelligence Insights for Slack:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/hWix1EeQn3cVVRzeRUf9Qd?
Create a Slack Rule
Create a rule in Slack to trigger alerts based on specific KPIs or by a particular date and time. Use rules
to stay updated on the progress of your data.
Create a Slack Rule
Create a rule in Slack to trigger alerts based on specific KPIs or by a particular date and time. Use rules to
stay updated on the progress of your data.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To share in Slack Admin and Power User
11.. Go to the dashboard page or widget you want to share.
22.. Click the Share icon.
33.. Click Slack.
44.. Click Create Rule, and define the rule.
aa.. Name your rule (1).
bb.. Add the Slack channel you want to notify (2). If you defined the channel in the sharing setting, the
channel is automatically populated.
cc.. Add a message or information you want to share (3).
dd.. You can add queries to your rule to make the data dynamic and interactive (4). When adding a
query, make sure that the selected measurements and dimensions are available in your data.
55.. Define the trigger for your alert.
557

=== PAGE 562 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
aa.. Choose whether it’s by time or event (1).
bb.. If you’re using by event, select the measurement to apply (2) and the operator (3).
cc.. Add a value (4). For example, you want to be notified when your Message Total Clicks drops below
100.
dd.. You can add a dimension (5). If you’re creating a rule from a widget that already contains a
dimension, it’s automatically populated.
ee.. Define how often you want to check if the conditions are true (6).
66.. Define filter settings.
In the Filters section, you can see all the filters that are applied to your rule and edit them. You can
also edit the date range.
Note When creating a generic rule that is scheduled to run in the future, it’s recommended to set
the date range as a relative date so that the data from the rule is always relevant. For example, last
week.
77.. Preview the content you are going to send (1).
88.. Click Create Rule
Share to Email
You can share widgets and pages via email to collaborate with colleagues and clients.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To share in email Admin and Power User
11.. For the page or widget you want to share, click the Share icon.
22.. Click Email and enter the sharing information.
aa.. Enter the email address you want to share to (1).
bb.. Select the format (2)
cc.. Add a message to describe what you’re sharing (3).
33.. Click Send
Create an Email Rule
Create a rule to trigger an email. You can schedule email alerts based on specific KPIs or by a
particular date and time. Use rules to stay updated on the progress of your data.
Create an Email Rule
Create a rule to trigger an email. You can schedule email alerts based on specific KPIs or by a particular
date and time. Use rules to stay updated on the progress of your data.
558

=== PAGE 563 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create an email rule Admin and Power User
11.. Go to the dashboard page or widget you want to share.
22.. Click the Share icon.
33.. Click Email
44.. Click Create Rule and define the rule.
aa.. In the General section name your rule (1) In the destination section, add the email address you are
creating a rule for (2).
bb.. In the Content section add a message or information you want to share (3).
cc.. You can add queries to your rule to make the data dynamic and interactive (4). When you add a
query to your content be sure that the measurements and dimensions you selected are available in
your data.
dd.. To add more dimensions or measurements select them from the dropdown.
55.. In the Trigger section, define the trigger for your alert:
aa.. Choose whether it’s by time or by event (1).
bb.. If you’re using by event, select the measurement to apply (2) and the operator (3).
cc.. Add a value (4). For example, you want to be notified when your Message Total Clicks drops below
100.
dd.. You can add a dimension (5). If you’re creating a rule from a widget that already contains a
dimension, it’s automatically populated.
ee.. Define how often you want to check if the conditions are true (6).
66.. In the Filters section, you can see all the filters that are applied to your rule and edit the date range.
On the right you can see a preview of the email you are sending.
Note When creating a rule that is scheduled to run in the future, it is recommended to set the
date range as a relative date. For example Last week. This ensures that the data from the rule is
always relevant.
77.. When you are finished click Create Rule.
Share and Embed Dashboard Pages and Widgets
After creating a visualization of your data, you can embed it as a page or widget in a third-party site or
share a link with stakeholders.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To share and embed dashboard pages and Admin and Power User
widgets
11.. Go to the dashboard page or widget you want to share.
22.. Click the Share icon.
559

=== PAGE 564 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
33.. To embed the link, click Embed and specify who can view it:
Only users that are logged into Marketing Cloud
Logged Users
Intelligence can view the dashboard page.
Anyone with the link can view the dashboard
Anyone
page.
Not Shared The dashboard page can’t be viewed publicly.
Click Copy link and paste it where you want to share the dashboard page, such as in an email or file.
Download Dashboard Pages and Widgets
You can download dashboard pages and widgets so you can share them with multiple people within
your organization. This download produces a local version of your dashboard page or widget.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To download pages and widgets Admin and Power User
11.. Go to the dashboard page or widget you want to download.
22.. Click the Share icon.
33.. Select quick download.
44.. Select the format you require: PNG, Excel, PDF, or PPT. The Task Processing window appears and
notifies you when the export is ready for download.
55.. Click Download Now, and open your file.
Note
•
When exporting to PPT, Marketing Cloud Intelligence automatically splits long pages into multiple
slides according to the PPT slide height and the margin width at the top and bottom.
•
When exporting to Excel, Marketing Cloud Intelligence automatically splits each widget on the
dashboard page into individual tabs within the spreadsheet.
•
When exporting to Advanced Export, you can customize the export layout, including widget size,
page size, and hide widgets.
Use Advanced Export
Advanced export gives you the power to design the layout of your page before exporting it and
customizing it for print, presentations, or emails. A layout includes a page’s structure and saved settings
so that you can reuse it in the future. You can maintain different layouts based on your use case,
including interactive filtersets, and only include relevant materials.
560

=== PAGE 565 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To use advanced export Admin and Power User
11.. Go to the Visualize tab.
22.. Select the dashboard page you want to export.
33.. Click the Options menu, and select Advanced Export.
44.. Use these options:
•
Format — Configure the file type, paper size, and rotation of the dashboard page. When changing the
paper size or rotation, the width remains at 1,600 pixels and only the height changes.
•
Design — Configure the display of the layout, such as showing or hiding the title, logo, date range, or
background. When Include Background is selected, you have these two options:
- Fit to Page — Applies the background image to the paper size you selected.
- Repeat Background — Applies the selected image to the whole report while scrolling. It’s helpful
when you have long pages with a background image that is smaller than the page length. Note that
Repeat Background can only be selected when exporting to PDF or PNG.
•
Widget Options — Control the widgets that appear in your layout. These two options are available:
- Hidden Widgets — Select the widgets you want to exclude from the export. Use the dropdown to
select the widgets you want to omit.
- Add New Widgets Automatically — When you save your layout, checking this checkbox ensures that
any new widgets added to your dashboard page are also added to your export layout.
•
Interactive FilterSet — Filter your advanced export layout based on one of the interactive filtersets you
created. When toggled on, you can select the interactive filterset you want to apply to the layout.
Note that:
- After you add an interactive filterset, you can hover over the i icon to see which filters are included
in the selected interactive filterset.
- You can create up to 200 layouts and filtersets per page.
- Admins and power users can add interactive filtersets to layouts.
- Viewers can see and use all advanced export layouts but can’t create any.
- There are currently no permission settings on filtersets or layouts, but user-level restrictions still
apply. If certain viewers have restrictions on specific dimensions or measurements, they can’t see
the data.
After you configure your layout settings, you can start to design your export by editing the layout
manually on the advanced export page itself. You can instantly see how your page looks before
exporting.
These options are available:
•
Widget resize — Hover over the widget borders, and click and drag to the size you want.
•
Page break — Hover over the left-hand side ruler, and click to add a separator line.
•
Drag and drop — Drag widgets into the position you want on the page.
Now that your layout looks how you want it to, you’re ready to export your file. You can Schedule your
export or Export it right away.
561

=== PAGE 566 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Visualize Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Watch this video about advanced export:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/pqgRgAwu4tFxkmmuSXZExw
Scheduled Reports
Admin and power users can create a scheduled report so that a collection, dashboard page, or widget is
sent to them at a specific time. This feature is especially useful to send executive overviews automatically
or to send a weekly report to stakeholders without manually downloading and sending the report.
Create a Scheduled Report for a Collection
A scheduled report of your collection sends a PPT, PNG, or PDF file, depending on how you configure
the settings.
Create a Scheduled Report for a Dashboard Page
A scheduled report of your dashboard page sends a PNG or PDF file, depending on how you configure
the settings.
Create a Scheduled Report for a Widget
A scheduled report of your widget sends a PNG file of your widget.
Create a Scheduled Report for a Collection
A scheduled report of your collection sends a PPT, PNG, or PDF file, depending on how you configure the
settings.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create a scheduled report for a collection Admin
11.. Go to Visualize.
22.. Click the collection you want to export, and then click Share.
33.. Select Scheduled Report. You’re redirected to the Reports tab, and a new report is created for you
according to the format you selected.
44.. If you want to change the export format, select the format you want from the Export Format
dropdown list. You can schedule collections to be exported in those formats.
55.. Under Configuration, the collection you selected is listed as the Dashboard, and All pages in
Dashboard is listed as the Page.
66.. When you’re done defining your report, save it, or click Save & Run to run it.
Create a Scheduled Report for a Dashboard Page
A scheduled report of your dashboard page sends a PNG or PDF file, depending on how you configure
the settings.
562

=== PAGE 567 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create a scheduled report for a page Admin and Power User
11.. Go to Visualize.
22.. Click on the collection, and then select the dashboard page you want to export.
33.. Click Share.
44.. Select Scheduled Report to be redirected to the Reports tab. A new report is created for you according
to the format you selected.
55.. To change the export format, select the format you want from the Export format dropdown list. You
can schedule dashboard pages to be exported in these formats: PNG, PDF.
66.. Under Configuration, the Dashboard and Page are automatically selected for you based on the
dashboard page you exported. If you want to export a page that includes Interactive FilterSets, click
the Page dropdown, and select the layout that includes the interactive filterset you want to use from
the Custom Layouts section. If you want to export a page with interactive filtersets and later edit the
widget layout and save new layouts, use Advanced Export.
77.. When you’re done defining your report, save it, or click Save & Run to run it.
See Also
Use Advanced Export
Create a Scheduled Report for a Widget
A scheduled report of your widget sends a PNG file of your widget.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create a scheduled report for a widget Admin and Power User
11.. Go to Visualize.
22.. Select the dashboard page where the widget is located.
33.. Select the widget you want to export.
44.. Click Share.
55.. Select Scheduled Report to be redirected to the Reports tab. A new report is created for you
according to the format you selected.
66.. Under Configuration, the Dashboard, Page, and Widget are automatically selected for you based on
the widget you exported.
77.. When you’re done defining your report, save it, or click Save & Run to run it.
Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Marketing Cloud Intelligence offers many tools for analyzing your data. All of these tools are found in the
Analyze and Act tab.
563

=== PAGE 568 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
For example pivot tables ensure that your data is being loaded correctly from the source into Marketing
Cloud Intelligence and that the values are aggregating correctly. Pivot tables can be exported into reports
that can be set to run as part of a workflow, in real time, or according to a defined schedule. Goals are
monitoring tools that enable you to track KPIs, helping you improve your work strategies and outcome.
Activation Center
Use the Activation Center to connect to third-party platforms, such as Slack, Facebook Ads, and
Google Ads, to trigger alerts, collaborate, and automate workflows in other systems. For example, you
can create an action that sends a notification in Slack every time a certain campaign hits the target
value you set for it.
Einstein Marketing Insights
Einstein Marketing Insights analyzes your data to show key factors that affect your marketing
performance. Track your KPIs and verify that they perform as you intend by using Einstein Marketing
Insights bots. For example, if you track the average time on your website, the bot can point out the
path that increased the average time spent.
Goals
Use Marketing Cloud Intelligence Goals to track your performance KPIs. The goal tool helps you
monitor your progress against benchmarks you set. Marketing Cloud Intelligence goals bring you
closer to actionable insights and help you improve the efficiency and effectiveness of your data. You
can visualize your goals in your dashboards allowing you to view and monitor your KPIs in context, and
get notifications in real time for your KPIs.
Pivot Tables in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Explore your data from multiple perspectives using pivot tables. You can calculate, summarize, and
analyze data by seeing comparisons, patterns, and trends in your data. You can also create custom
reports without using query formulas, such as SQL queries.
Reports in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use reports to retrieve, view, and share a detailed analysis of the data that you’ve integrated into
Marketing Cloud Intelligence. You can save them locally or share them via email or the cloud. The data
uploaded into Intelligence is displayed as a flat file and includes selected dimensions and
measurements within a defined time range.
Connect Marketing Cloud Intelligence with Tableau
Connect Marketing Cloud Intelligence with Tableau to easily query your data. With the Marketing
Cloud Intelligence Tableau integration, you get harmonization capabilities with Intelligence’s ETL
solution and Tableau’s advanced visualization tools.
Use Database Exports to Export Datasets
Export data from Marketing Cloud Intelligence, and connect it to an enterprise database such as
Snowflake and PostgreSQL. With Database Exports, automate the export of Intelligence marketing
data. Enhance enterprise-wide analytics by making marketing insights accessible, and get a full view of
your company’s data.
Query Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data with the API Builder
Use the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Query API Builder to perform advanced queries on your existing
data.
564

=== PAGE 569 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Activation Center
Use the Activation Center to connect to third-party platforms, such as Slack, Facebook Ads, and Google
Ads, to trigger alerts, collaborate, and automate workflows in other systems. For example, you can create
an action that sends a notification in Slack every time a certain campaign hits the target value you set for
it.
You can create actions and customize them using Webhooks and Python. And then you can
automatically trigger actions based on key performance indicators (KPIs) you set for your campaigns,
media buys, and creatives.
Actions and Action Rules
You can react, track, and manage your most important KPIs and benchmarks by using the activation
center data optimization tools. Access the tools from the Activation Center menu in the Analyze & Act
tab.
•
Actions — Interact with your channel or campaign. For example, send a Slack message to your
reporting channel, pause a campaign on Facebook, or send a custom email.
•
Action Rules — Define the triggers for your actions. Triggers for your stored actions are automatically
executed when the event you define occurs. You can trigger multiple actions for one action rule.
Action Types
These action types are available.
•
Email - send email to a list of contacts.
•
Webhook - trigger actions over the web in other applications.
•
IFTTT Connector - trigger an appellate in IFTTT.
•
Twilio Connector - send an SMS through Twilio.
•
Slack Connector - post to Slack.
•
Python - trigger python scripts.
•
Media Actions in Google, Twitter, and Facebook - trigger media actions such as stopping or starting
campaigns, ad sets, or ads.
Create Actions in the Activation Center
Create actions for third-party providers and channel platforms such as Facebook Ads and Slack.
Create Action Rules in the Activation Center
Action rules define how a rule is triggered. For example, the action can be triggered by time or by a
specific event. You can create a rule for several actions.
Trigger an Action Rule from the Management Screen
Triggering an action manually allows you to run an action rule at any time. If the action rule condition
is met, the rule executes the actions specified in it. For example, if your stakeholders ask for an
updated report in the middle of the week, you can trigger the action rule and see the latest
565

=== PAGE 570 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
information.
Create Actions in the Activation Center
Create actions for third-party providers and channel platforms such as Facebook Ads and Slack.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an Action Admin
11.. On the Analyze & Act tab, on the left menu, click Activation Center and then select Actions.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Select the connector or channel that you want to create an action for. For example, select Email.
44.. Define the parameters for the action. The setup for each connector or channel is unique:
aa.. Name your action.
bb.. Set the destination. For example, a recipient’s email address.
cc.. Add your content. For example, add a message or the information that you want to share.
dd.. To add a query to your action, click Query Settings. Queries make the data dynamic and interactive.
When you add a query to your content, ensure that the measurements and dimensions you
selected are available in your data.
ee.. A preview of your action rule appears in the window on the right side.
55.. To create the action, save your changes.
66.. To define a trigger for the action, click Create Rule.
Create Action Rules in the Activation Center
Action rules define how a rule is triggered. For example, the action can be triggered by time or by a
specific event. You can create a rule for several actions.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an Action Rule Admin or Power User
11.. On the Analyze & Act tab, click Activation Center and then Action Rules in the left panel.
22.. Click Create New.
33.. Name your rule.
44.. From the dropdown, select the action that you want to apply the rule to. For example, an email action
named Daily Update that sends daily email updates.
55.. To add another action, click the + icon, and select the action from the dropdown.
66.. Define the trigger By Time or By Event. Defining the trigger determines what prompts the action rule:
aa.. By Time — Sets daily, weekly, or monthly triggers.
566

=== PAGE 571 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
bb.. By Event — Sets a KPI for a specific measurement. For example, you want to be notified when your
Message Total Clicks drops below 100.
77.. Apply filters. To narrow your results, you can apply a date range filter. For example, if you want your
action rule to stop after 1 month, you can set the date range for 1 month.
88.. To save your rule, click Create Action Rules.
Trigger an Action Rule from the Management Screen
Triggering an action manually allows you to run an action rule at any time. If the action rule condition is
met, the rule executes the actions specified in it. For example, if your stakeholders ask for an updated
report in the middle of the week, you can trigger the action rule and see the latest information.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To trigger an Action Rule Admin or Power User
11.. On the Analyze & Act tab, click Activation Center and then Action Rules in the left panel. A list of all
the action rules appears.
22.. Select the row of the desired action rule. Click Run.
33.. If the action rule’s condition is met, the rule executes the actions specified in it. For example, if you
want to be notified when your Message Total Clicks drops below 100, you’re notified when your total
drops below 100.
Einstein Marketing Insights
Einstein Marketing Insights analyzes your data to show key factors that affect your marketing
performance. Track your KPIs and verify that they perform as you intend by using Einstein Marketing
Insights bots. For example, if you track the average time on your website, the bot can point out the path
that increased the average time spent.
An Einstein Marketing Insights bot shows two types of insights.
•
Over- and under-performers
For example, a campaign’s click-through rate is 60% above average, with 11% of overall impressions
in 1 month.
•
Over- and under-performers
For example, a campaign’s click-through rate is 60% above average, with 11% of overall impressions
in 1 month.
For example, your click-through rate drops by 70% in a given week, but impressions increased from 2
million to 5 million, which caused the drop.
Here’s a video about Einstein Marketing Insights:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/YQkVputrU9BXZo5iUcE2KQ?
567

=== PAGE 572 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create an Einstein Marketing Insight Bot
To analyze your datasets and uncover aspects that affect performance in a positive or negative way,
use an Einstein Marketing Insights bot.
Review Your Insights Bots
After you create your insights bots you can view and review the insights that are available.
Best Practices for Creating EMI Bots
Here are some best practices to consider when creating and using EMI bots.
Create an Einstein Marketing Insight Bot
To analyze your datasets and uncover aspects that affect performance in a positive or negative way, use
an Einstein Marketing Insights bot.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create Insights bots Admin or Power User
11.. On the Analyze & Act tab left navigation panel, click Einstein Marketing Insights.
22.. Click the plus icon.
33.. Select the KPI that you want to optimize such as Visitor Bounce or Click Through Rate. Not all
measurements are available as KPIs. A measurement is eligible to be used as a KPI in an Insights Bot if
it’s in the form of A/B, such as CPM, CPC, CTR, and other calculated metrics whose formulas are
aligned with this format (A divided by B).
44.. To add a filter, click Add Filter. Use a filter to narrow your bot results. For example, you can filter by
data stream, creative, or conversion tag.
55.. To optimize your KPI by increasing the value, click Increase. To optimize your KPI by decreasing the
value, click Decrease.
66.. To run your bot with default settings, click Save & Run.
77.. To further customize your bot, in the left navigation window, click Analysis Settings.
88.. From scheduling, set the frequency: how often you want the bot to run.
99.. Select the time period: the date range when you want the bot to run (2).
1100.. Select the dimensions that the bot examines (3).
1111.. To further customize your bot, click Advanced in the left sidebar (4). To better reflect the commercial
logic behind the selected measurements, change volume measurement. To send emails when new
insights are available, set email notifications.
1122.. Click Save and Run.
Review Your Insights Bots
After you create your insights bots you can view and review the insights that are available.
568

=== PAGE 573 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create Insights bots Admin or Power User
11.. From the Analyze & Act tab, on the left, click Einstein Marketing Insights.
22.. From the Insights Bots screen you can see the bots in your workspace. Each bot shows a data
summary.
33.. To group your bots by KPI, toggle Group by KPI. This view separates your bots based on matching
KPIs. For example, see all the bots that track bounce rate.
44.. To learn more about a bot, click it and review the four sections.
•
The bot name and objective (1).
•
What changed and a quick view of the insights for: Week over Week (WoW), Month over Month
(MoM), and overall change (2).
•
To narrow the insights, use the filters bar (3).
•
View a list of Bot insights, ordered by EMI’s evaluation of most valuable insights. Each insight includes
detailed information (4).
•
To learn more about an insight, click it. You can see a detailed breakdown of the KPI and the
components leading to positive or negative impact. And you can see comparisons of similar
campaigns.
Best Practices for Creating EMI Bots
Here are some best practices to consider when creating and using EMI bots.
•
Filter to a scope that you can easily control and monitor. Consider filtering your bots to a single
campaign. For example, the Budget measurement moves relatively easily within a single campaign,
but not so easily between more than one campaign.
•
Select dimensions that you can easily target or that are practical such as age, gender, or demographic.
•
Have at least two full quarters of historical data in your workspace for WoW, MoM, and Quarter-over-
Quarter analysis. EMI bots can process your custom date ranges if data is available.
•
EMI insights are a starting point . If you see something interesting, investigate it to discover more
insights.
Goals
Use Marketing Cloud Intelligence Goals to track your performance KPIs. The goal tool helps you monitor
your progress against benchmarks you set. Marketing Cloud Intelligence goals bring you closer to
actionable insights and help you improve the efficiency and effectiveness of your data. You can visualize
your goals in your dashboards allowing you to view and monitor your KPIs in context, and get
notifications in real time for your KPIs.
569

=== PAGE 574 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Here’s a video about tracking your business goals:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/rPV43cYSqrSUagkG3oypJc?
Create a Goal
Use goals to track your campaign KPIs and improve the outcome.
Set Your Goal Filters and Values
Filters can be set to customize your goal. You can filter goals according to a dimension or
measurement value. For example, you can choose to filter your clicks goal by a specific campaign.
Set Your Goal Notifications
While your goal is active, you can get notified on the progress of your goals and where they stand
compared to the benchmarks you set.
Set Your Goal Actions
In the Action section, define the actions you want taken for your goal.
Create a Goal
Use goals to track your campaign KPIs and improve the outcome.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create and manage goals Admin or Power User
11.. Navigate to the Analyze & Act tab.
22.. Expand Goals and then expand Goals List.
33.. Click Add New.
44.. In the General section:
aa.. Name your Goal - This name is used as the name of the goal in the Goals List and the Scorecards
subtabs.
bb.. Select the measurement you want to target in your goal.
cc.. Set the measurement type — Determine if your measurement is summable or non-summable. Non-
summable measurements usually relate to percentage measurements. The measurement type
affects how the goal is calculated.
dd.. Determine how the goal’s success is measured:
The goal is a success if the measurement is at
least the given value or higher than the goal’s
value. For example, when tracking CTR, set the
At Least
lowest value that is considered successful as the
baseline and any value higher than the baseline
will be displayed as a success.
The goal is a success if the measurement
Exactly matches the exact value set for the goal. This
goal type is suitable for measurements that
570

=== PAGE 575 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
calculate a budget.
The goal is a success if the measurement is
At Most lower than the goal’s set value. This goal type is
suitable for measurements like CPA.
ee.. Set the goal’s time period, and the days to include. When tracking a campaign, you might want to
set the goal’s date range to match the campaign’s start and end dates.
ff.. If you want to make the time period more granular, you can apply a target value to the time period.
For example, if you select Quarter, the goal monitors the results for every quarter in comparison to
the set target value.
gg.. Select a dimension for the goal to be affiliated with. For example, if you select Campaign Name, the
goal monitors each campaign name in comparison to the target value. When selecting a dimension,
you can set a Dimension Hierarchy that allows you to drill down your view when visualizing goals.
Note The target value applies only to the selected dimension and not to its lower hierarchies.
hh.. Define the goal’s granularity. For example, if your goal is monitoring five campaigns, you can apply a
different value to each campaign, or you can apply a single goal value for all the entities. If you
choose to apply multiple values, the Values section is populated with the relevant values.
Note When choosing either a Period Granularity or a Dimension, the field you choose has to
contain data relevant to the date range of the goal. If there’s no data included, the Values
section can’t be populated.
ii.. Set the ranges for the success rate of the goal.
jj.. Select whether to set the goal’s value manually or automatically. The Automatic option is typically
used for checking ongoing values against your initial planning, for example, comparing impressions
to booked impressions. If you select Automatic, select the fill measurement from the dropdown.
kk.. If you didn’t configure the period granularity, you can use prediction sampling to pace your goal by
defining the number of days being measured. Prediction sampling affects only the Average Daily
Value, Predicted, and Goal Delivery Rate fields.
ll.. Select the rate calculation:
Compares the number of impressions reached
so far at the given pace to your desired goal and
Target Until Today
provides a percentage of the success rate on the
dashboard.
Calculates your goal’s success rate by comparing
the current status to your ultimate target or the
point you would be at currently within the goal’s
Entire Goal date range. For example, a goal set to reach
3,000 impressions within 30 days would ideally
reach at least 100 impressions per day to be
successful.
mm.. If you want your goal to Run After a specific data stream is processed, select the data stream from
the dropdown.
571

=== PAGE 576 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Set Your Goal Filters and Values
Filters can be set to customize your goal. You can filter goals according to a dimension or measurement
value. For example, you can choose to filter your clicks goal by a specific campaign.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create and manage goals Admin or Power User
11.. In the Filters sections you can see if there are any filters applied to your goal. Click Add Filter to add a
new filter to your goal.
22.. In the Values section, click Export to export your goals’ dimension values to edit your target values for
the goal. Every entity can have a different value.
33.. When you are through editing, click Import to import the edited values.
Note You can’t import your own file – you must export the existing file and then import it back
again.
Set Your Goal Notifications
While your goal is active, you can get notified on the progress of your goals and where they stand
compared to the benchmarks you set.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create and manage goals Admin or Power User
11.. To be notified when your goals aren’t met, select Show.
The notifications appear at the top of the page as yellow exclamation points.
22.. To be notified by email, select the email address from the dropdown menu.
33.. Select the entity for which you want to sort your email notifications by.
44.. Select how your emails are sorted, for example Ascending or Descending.
Notifications are only sent while the goal is still active, and hasn’t yet reached its target value.
Set Your Goal Actions
In the Action section, define the actions you want taken for your goal.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create and manage goals Admin or Power User
Note You can only set an action if actions exist in your workspace.
11.. Select the Action is Active checkbox to take action when success and failure of goals occur.
572

=== PAGE 577 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
22.. You can set Trigger Action by each dimension value separately, or the entire goal value.
33.. Select an action you want to occur when your goal is achieved.
44.. Select the action you want to achieve if your goal isn’t achieved.
55.. Check the Run action only once checkbox if you only want the action you set to run one time after
the goal is achieved or failed.
Note If this checkbox is selected, the action will be disabled after running.
66.. When you’re done, save your goal.
Pivot Tables in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Explore your data from multiple perspectives using pivot tables. You can calculate, summarize, and
analyze data by seeing comparisons, patterns, and trends in your data. You can also create custom
reports without using query formulas, such as SQL queries.
A common use case for using pivot tables in Marketing Cloud Intelligence is to validate your data and
ensure that it’s loading correctly from the source and that the values are aggregating correctly. After you
create a pivot table, you can export it locally or turn it into a scheduled report.
Create a Pivot Table from Scratch
Use a pivot table to explore and extract data.
Create a Pivot Table Using a Data Stream
Create a pivot table using a data stream to base it on already-defined measurements and dimensions.
Manage Pivot Tables
Edit, duplicate, and delete pivot tables in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
Create a Pivot Table from Scratch
Use a pivot table to explore and extract data.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create and manage pivot tables Admin or Power User
11.. On the Analyze & Act tab, click Pivot Tables.
22.. Click the plus (+) icon.
33.. Add the dimensions and measurements that you want to include in the pivot table by clicking + Add a
Field.
By default, dimensions are placed in rows, and measurements are placed in values. You can change
the format by manually dragging them to where you want. To hide a dimension or measurement from
the table, hover over the field name and click the eye icon.
44.. When you’re done, close the Add Data window.
55.. Select the date range that you want to view data for and how to display dates.
Period name Displays a given name for the time period. For
573

=== PAGE 578 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
example, naming the first 4 weeks in January
“W1-W4.”
Shows the first date of the selected date range in
Period first day
the pivot table. For example, 1 Jan 2022.
If you have a custom calendar and want to
Period first day (calendric) display the date range according to it, use this
option.
66.. To apply a filter, in the Filters section, click the + icon and select the filters. To quickly filter your data,
click the filter icon in the relevant column header in the table, and select the filters.
77.. Name the pivot table.
88.. To visualize your data in a chart, turn on Visualize.
To select which dimensions and measurements to show or to change the chart type, click Chart
Settings
To change how the results are sorted, click Chart Top and Sorting.
99.. To view the pivot table as a flat table, click the Flat table icon.
1100.. To save, export, or download your pivot table, click More Actions.
1111.. Save your work.
A pivot table can include up to 8,000 rows, and you’re notified when you reach the limit. You can
either reduce the number of rows by updating the pivot table settings or adjusting the date range to
narrow the results or save the pivot table and download the full results.
See Also
Create a Pivot Table Using a Data Stream
Create a Pivot Table Using a Data Stream
Create a pivot table using a data stream to base it on already-defined measurements and dimensions.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create and manage pivot tables Admin or Power User
11.. On the Analyze & Act tab, click Data Streams in the left panel.
22.. Select a data stream.
33.. Click Pivot Table A pivot table filtered on this data stream is created using its measurements, along
with the Day field.
574

=== PAGE 579 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
44.. Customize the pivot table if needed.
55.. Save your work.
Manage Pivot Tables
Edit, duplicate, and delete pivot tables in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create and manage pivot tables Admin or Power User
11.. On the Analyze & Act tab, click Pivot Tables in the left panel.
22.. To change the pivot table configuration, click Edit.
33.. To create a copy of the pivot table, which you can modify, click Duplicate.
44.. To delete a pivot table, click Delete.
Note When you delete a pivot table, it goes to your workspace bin. If you want to restore a pivot
table, contact support.
55.. To copy the pivot table to another workspace, click Copy to Workspace.
Reports in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use reports to retrieve, view, and share a detailed analysis of the data that you’ve integrated into
Marketing Cloud Intelligence. You can save them locally or share them via email or the cloud. The data
uploaded into Intelligence is displayed as a flat file and includes selected dimensions and measurements
within a defined time range.
You can run reports as part of a workflow in real time, or according to a defined schedule. You can create
data reports and visual reports. Data reports display data in an Excel, CSV, TSV, or TXT file. Visual reports
create a screenshot of a dashboard page that you can export as a PNG, PDF, or PPT file.
Create a Data Report
A data report is based on the data that exists in your workspace. You can save it as an Excel, CSV, TSV,
or TXT file.
Create a Visual Report
A visual report is a screenshot of a dashboard page. You can export it as a PNG, PDF, or PPT file.
Configure Report Scheduling and Delivery
You can choose when and how to run and share a report. You can set up multiple schedules for a
report. For example, you can send the report to the management team on a weekly basis and to the
analyst team daily.
Manage Reports
After you create a report, it appears in your reports list. From your reports list, you can view all your
reports and edit, delete, and create a copy.
575

=== PAGE 580 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Create a Data Report
A data report is based on the data that exists in your workspace. You can save it as an Excel, CSV, TSV, or
TXT file.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create and manage reports Admin or Power User
11.. On the Analyze & Act tab, click Reports in the left panel.
22.. Click the plus (+) icon.
33.. Enter the general information:
aa.. Name the report, and select the export format. To pull your data into BigQuery, select CSV.
bb.. For Purge Report History, enter the number of days after which the report is deleted. For example,
if you enter 30, the report’s history is deleted after 30 days.
Note The default maximum number of days you can use the history is 180 days.
cc.. Optionally, select Include the Description in the report.
44.. Configure the report:
aa.. Select the time period that you want to pull data from or enter a custom date.
bb.. Select the measurements you want pulled into the report, for example, email sends. You can select
up to 100 measurements.
cc.. Select the dimensions you want pulled into your report, for example, send date. You can select up
to 80 dimensions.
dd.. Depending on the format that you select, you can choose how to sort the data.
ee.. (Optional) To apply a filter to the report, click Add Filters.
55.. (Optional) Add Advanced Report settings:
aa.. Assign the report a different name from the one you entered in the General section. For example,
you could create a general name for a report familiar to an admin role, but give the extracted report
a different name for the recipient of this report. You can also add tags in the report file name field.
For example, {DATA_START_DATE} and {DATA_END_DATE} automatically enter the report’s start and
end dates to the report name.
bb.. To include headers in the report, select Headers.
cc.. To split the pages when exporting, select an option from the Split Files By dropdown menu.
dd.. To create a unique encryption key to encrypt and decrypt your files, select GPG Encryption.
ee.. Define how to display unrelated measurements.
ff.. To only retrieve data created or updated during the selected time range, select Retrieve By Update
Date. Selecting this option replaces the date range defined in the Configuration section.
66.. Define scheduling and delivery methods for the report.
Unrelated Measurements in Data Reports
When you query entities from different data types with different measurements that are unlinked in
the platform, unrelated measurements appear in your report. For example, a report pulling Ads data—
Impressions and a measurement that isn’t in the Ads data type—visits, results in unrelated
measurements in your report.
576

=== PAGE 581 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Unrelated Measurements in Data Reports
When you query entities from different data types with different measurements that are unlinked in the
platform, unrelated measurements appear in your report. For example, a report pulling Ads data—
Impressions and a measurement that isn’t in the Ads data type—visits, results in unrelated measurements
in your report.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create and manage data reports: Admin or Power User
There are two ways to show unrelated measurement data in your report:
•
Show unrelated measurements on default entity—shows the unrelated measurements’ total values in a
default entity of the dimension.
•
Duplicate unrelated measurements across rows—shows the unrelated measurements’ total values in
each row of the report.
11.. On the Analyze & Act tab, in the left menu, select Reports.
22.. Select the report, and click edit.
33.. Scroll down, and expand Advanced Sheet "Sheet 1" Settings.
44.. Select the display methods from the Unrelated Measurement dropdown.
55.. Save your report.
Create a Visual Report
A visual report is a screenshot of a dashboard page. You can export it as a PNG, PDF, or PPT file.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create and manage reports Admin or Power User
11.. On the Analyze & Act tab, click Reports in the left panel.
22.. Click the plus (+) icon.
33.. Enter the general information:
aa.. Name the report, and select the export format.
bb.. For Purge Report History, enter the number of days after which the report is deleted. For example,
if you enter 30, the report’s history is deleted after 30 days.
Note The default maximum number of days you can use the history is 180 days.
cc.. Optionally, select Include the Description in the report.
44.. Define configuration details:
577

=== PAGE 582 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
aa.. Select the collections you want to include in the report. All dashboards and widgets that belong to
the selected collection become available for selection.
bb.. Select the dashboards you want to include in the report.
cc.. Select the widgets you want to display in the report. (Available for PNG only) The default is all
widgets in page.
dd.. (Optional) Click Add Filters to apply a filter to the report.
55.. (Optional) Add Advanced Report settings:
aa.. Assign the report a different name from the one you entered in the General section. For example,
you could create a general name for a report familiar to an admin role, but give the extracted report
a different name for the recipient of this report. You can also add tags in the report file name field.
For example, {DATA_START_DATE} and {DATA_END_DATE} automatically enter the report’s start and
end dates to the report name.
bb.. To include headers in the report, select Headers.
cc.. To create a unique encryption key to encrypt and decrypt your files, select GPG Encryption.
66.. Define scheduling and delivery methods for the report.
Configure Report Scheduling and Delivery
You can choose when and how to run and share a report. You can set up multiple schedules for a report.
For example, you can send the report to the management team on a weekly basis and to the analyst
team daily.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create and manage reports Admin or Power User
These delivery methods are supported:
•
AzureBlob
•
Email
•
FTPS
•
Google Drive
•
HDFS
•
SFTP
•
AWS - S3
•
Google Cloud Storage
Note
•
Email attachments larger than 10 MB will be sent as a download link, requiring user login.
•
Emails with attachments sent to data streams in an Azure environment (platform-us2 and
platform-eu2) are blocked if they don’t include a Message-ID that meets standard RFC guidelines.
11.. On the Analyze & Act tab, click Reports in the left panel.
22.. Create a report or edit one.
578

=== PAGE 583 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
33.. Under Report Scheduling, select Active.
44.. After you make the report active, these settings depend on the selected format:
Selected by default. Lets recipients unsubscribe
Include Unsubscribe In Email Reports
from receiving the report.
Edit Report Email Text Select to revise the text sent to recipients.
Select to run the report only as part of a
Execute only as part of a Workflow
workflow.
55.. From the Frequency dropdown, select how often to send the report.
66.. Enter when to send the report. If you select Automatic, the report is sent at 6:00 UTC.
77.. Select the delivery method.
88.. To apply this scheduler to your report, click Add As New Scheduler.
Note If you don’t select this option, your report can’t run on a schedule.
99.. To create another scheduler using the same configuration, for example, if you also want to share the
report via FTPS, change the delivery method to FTPS. Enter any necessary settings, and click Add As
New Scheduler
Note To obey HIPAA compliance rules, ensure that the configured recipient supports the valid
encryption processes for data in motion.
1100.. To change a scheduler and override the settings, select it in the scheduler and make your changes.
Then click Update Scheduler.
1111.. To run the report, click Save and Run. To save the settings and not run the report, click Save.
Customize Report Email Text
Reports scheduled to be delivered by email are accompanied by short text that includes details about
the report. You can customize the email text on the workspace level and apply the text to all
workspace reports. Or you can customize the email text on the report level for a specific report.
Customize Report Email Text
Reports scheduled to be delivered by email are accompanied by short text that includes details about
the report. You can customize the email text on the workspace level and apply the text to all workspace
reports. Or you can customize the email text on the report level for a specific report.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create and manage reports: Admin or Power User
11.. To customize email report text on the workspace level:
aa.. To the left of the navigation bar, click your workspace name, and then click the workspace settings
gear icon.
579

=== PAGE 584 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
bb.. From the workspace menu, click Consumption.
cc.. Scroll down, expand Reports and edit the text.
dd.. To add the default email text click Restore Default Text.
ee.. To enable editing email report text on the report level, select Allow Edit in Report.
ff.. Save your work.
Note The tokens in the default email text are the only tokens that can be added. You can place
the tokens anywhere in the text.
22.. To customize email report text on the report level:
aa.. On the Analyze & Act tab, select Reports from the left menu.
bb.. Select the report, and click the edit icon.
cc.. Scroll down to the Report Scheduling section, and select Edit Report Email Text.
dd.. Edit the text.
ee.. To add the default email text click Restore to Default.
ff.. Save your work.
Manage Reports
After you create a report, it appears in your reports list. From your reports list, you can view all your
reports and edit, delete, and create a copy.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To create and manage reports Admin or Power User
11.. On the Analyze & Act tab, click Reports in the left panel.
22.. To make changes to a report, click Edit.
33.. To create a copy of a report and make changes to it, click Duplicate.
Note You can duplicate a report with or without schedulers.
44.. If a report is no longer needed, click Delete.
Note When you delete a report, it goes to your workspace bin. To restore a deleted report,
contact Support.
55.. To view a history log of the report, click History. To perform actions on a specific log, select the row of
the log and choose an action.
66.. To run the report immediately, click Run Now.
77.. To process the report and split the data into files by date, click Batch Process. Batch processing doesn’t
affect the original report configuration.
88.. To copy the report to another workspace to which you have permissions, click Copy to Workspace.
99.. To remove links to the original report’s account (when pushing a report to another workspace), click
Delink.
580

=== PAGE 585 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Connect Marketing Cloud Intelligence with Tableau
Connect Marketing Cloud Intelligence with Tableau to easily query your data. With the Marketing Cloud
Intelligence Tableau integration, you get harmonization capabilities with Intelligence’s ETL solution and
Tableau’s advanced visualization tools.
You can connect your data from Marketing Cloud Intelligence to Tableau in two ways:
•
Marketing Cloud Intelligence integration with Tableau (push method)
•
Marketing Cloud Intelligence connector in Tableau (pull method)
Here’s a comparison of the two methods looking at which features are available:
Features Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Integration with Tableau Connector in Tableau
Supported Tableau versions
Tableau Server 2019.2 and later Tableau Server 2020.3 and later
Tableau Online fully supported Tableau Online fully supported
Tableau Desktop 10.5 and later Tableau Desktop 2020.3 and
later
Managing exposure of Tableau Inside Marketing Cloud You can’t manage views because
views Intelligence, and you can define the token is at the workspace
which views are sent to each level. All views are available to all
location. users in the workspace.
Configuration Inside Marketing Cloud All configuration is inside
Intelligence you can define Tableau, except for view refresh
where and what to send to configuration.
Tableau, which server you want
to use, frequency, and so on.
Field setup Inside Marketing Cloud Inside Tableau by a Tableau
Intelligence by an admin. creator.
Known Issues:
•
To prevent data source failures, all Tableau reports have unique names.
•
You can add or remove dimensions and measurements in reports that are part of an existing Tableau
data source. However, changing names of dimensions and measurements that are part of a data
source can cause processing failures.
•
If your Tableau Server instance is protected for external applications, ask your team to allow the
following IPs according to your Marketing Cloud Intelligence environment.
581

=== PAGE 586 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
platform- platform- platform-
platform.datorama.co
eu.datorama.com us2.datorama.com eu2.datorama.com
m (AWS US)
(AWS EU) (AZURE US) (AZURE EU)
54.163.226.11 20.41.43.59 40.67.249.123
35.157.8.65
54.83.10.143 20.44.73.165 52.155.226.154
54.93.174.35
54.227.219.146 40.65.212.209 52.155.230.152
Here’s a video about connecting Marketing Cloud Intelligence with Tableau:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/jhPbaS1aA4noqcur9nNL6X?
Push Reports from Marketing Cloud Intelligence to Tableau
Use the push method to integrate your marketing data to create Tableau views, group them together,
and then download them to Tableau Desktop. With the push method, you work in Marketing Cloud
Intelligence. You can control where to send your data, which server to use, and which views you want
to make available to your users. You can push a single view or multiple views.
Use a Connector in Tableau to Pull Reports from Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Connect to Marketing Cloud Intelligence from Tableau Desktop, Tableau Server, Tableau Online, or
Tableau Prep using the Marketing Cloud Intelligence connector.
Push Reports from Marketing Cloud Intelligence to Tableau
Use the push method to integrate your marketing data to create Tableau views, group them together,
and then download them to Tableau Desktop. With the push method, you work in Marketing Cloud
Intelligence. You can control where to send your data, which server to use, and which views you want to
make available to your users. You can push a single view or multiple views.
You can also schedule automatic refreshes to Tableau Server or Tableau Online. All data is sent
automatically from Marketing Cloud Intelligence to Tableau, so you don’t have to refresh your data.
Push a Single View from Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Integrate Marketing Cloud Intelligence with Tableau by pushing a single view. During the process, you
create a Tableau view, a Tableau feed, run the data source, and then visualize your data in Tableau
Online.
Push Multiple Views from Marketing Cloud Intelligence to Tableau
When you push multiple views, you match the values between the views in Tableau Desktop. You can
then publish to Tableau Server or Online.
Push a Single View from Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Integrate Marketing Cloud Intelligence with Tableau by pushing a single view. During the process, you
create a Tableau view, a Tableau feed, run the data source, and then visualize your data in Tableau
582

=== PAGE 587 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Online.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To push a single view from Marketing Cloud Admin or Power User
Intelligence:
Note Tableau views are limited to 5 million rows in a single execution.
11.. Go to Analyze & Act.
22.. Select Tableau Data Connection.
33.. Create a Tableau view.
44.. In the Tableau Views section, click the blue plus icon.
55.. On the Create New View page, enter these details:
aa.. Name the report.
bb.. For Export Format, the default is Tableau, and it’s recommended to leave as is.
cc.. Select the number of days after which reports are deleted. For example, if you enter 30, after 30
days all reports are deleted from Marketing Cloud Intelligence. By default, the number of days is
180, which is also the maximum number of days you can save history.
dd.. Select the time period from which you want to retrieve data.
ee.. Select the measurements that you want to include in the report.
ff.. Select the dimensions that you want to include in the report.
gg.. To add a filter, click Add Filters.
hh.. Save and run your report.
66.. Create a Tableau feed:
aa.. Click Create New Tableau Feed.
bb.. Enter the data source name.
cc.. In the Views List, select the Tableau view that you created.
dd.. To send the view to Tableau Server or Tableau Online, select Send to Tableau Server/Online. If you
select this option, enter the delivery setup information and click Next.
ee.. If you aren’t sending to Tableau Server or Online, click Create.
77.. Define the delivery setup:
aa.. If you want to use a private access token instead of a username and password, enable Private Access
Token, and enter the token name and secret. A token is especially useful for customers who use
SSO, Active Directory, or LDAP authentication. For more information see Personal Access Tokens.
bb.. If you don’t want to use a token, enter your Tableau username and password.
cc.. Enter your server URL and site name. The server URL includes everything from https to tableau.com,
for example, https://10ax.online.tableau.com . The site name is after site/, for example,
583

=== PAGE 588 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
datoramademo .
Note If the URL doesn’t include a site name or if there’s a #, it’s the default site, so enter
Default.
After entering the server and site information, the Tableau Project and Data Source fields are
generated.
dd.. To create a new data source in Tableau, select Publish a New Data Source.
ee.. From the Frequency dropdown, select how often you want the data to be published.
ff.. Save your work. The data feed is created and appears as a new tile on the Tableau Data Connection
page.
88.. Run the data source:
aa.. On the Tableau Data Connection page, select the tile.
bb.. Click Options, and then select Run Now. After the source runs successfully, a Success status
appears. If the job fails, a Failed status appears.
cc.. To view all jobs, go to Execution History.
99.. Visualize your data in Tableau Online:
Push Multiple Views from Marketing Cloud Intelligence to Tableau
When you push multiple views, you match the values between the views in Tableau Desktop. You can
then publish to Tableau Server or Online.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To push multiple views from Marketing Cloud Admin or Power User
Intelligence:
11.. Go to Analyze & Act.
22.. Select Tableau Data Connection.
33.. On the Create New View page, enter these details:
aa.. Name the report.
bb.. For Export Format, the default is Tableau, and it’s recommended to leave as is.
cc.. Select the number of days after which reports are deleted. For example, if you enter 30, after 30
days all reports are deleted from Marketing Cloud Intelligence. By default, the number of days is
180, which is also the maximum number of days you can save history.
584

=== PAGE 589 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
dd.. Select the time period from which you want to retrieve data.
ee.. Select the measurements that you want to include in the report.
ff.. Select the dimensions that you want to include in the report.
gg.. To add a filter, click Add Filters.
hh.. Save and run your report.
44.. Click Create New Tableau Feed.
aa.. Enter the data source name.
bb.. In the Views List, select the Tableau views that you created.
cc.. Click Create New View to create a view directly from here.
dd.. To send the view to Tableau Server or Tableau Online, select Send to Tableau Server/Online. You
will need to define delivery setup details at a later time in the process.
ee.. Click Create. The system builds a hyper file containing all your grouped views.
55.. To download the hyper file, click Download File.
Note It’s highly recommended that you download the hyper file at this point because you need it
to open the views in Tableau Desktop. You can also download it at a later time.
66.. Open the hyper file. You’re redirected to Tableau Desktop to set up your tables.
77.. Set up your tables in Tableau:
aa.. Drag your tables to the Tableau desktop.
bb.. Create a join between the tables by selecting fields that have matching values between them.
cc.. On the Server tab, select Publish Data Source.
dd.. After the file is uploaded to the server, authenticate with your Tableau credentials.
ee.. Name your data source.
ff.. Click Publish. When you see the Publishing Complete message, you can set up automatic data
refresh from Marketing Cloud Intelligence to Tableau.
gg.. Click Done, and then go back to Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
88.. Define the delivery setup.
aa.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, click Next.
bb.. To use a private access token instead of a username and password, enable Private Access Token,
and enter the token name and secret. A token is especially useful for customers who use SSO, Active
Directory, or LDAP authentication. For more information see Personal Access Tokens.
cc.. If you don’t want to use a token, enter your Tableau username and password.
dd.. Enter your server URL and site name. The server URL includes everything from https to tableau.com,
for example, https://10ax.online.tableau.com . The site name is after site/, for example,
datoramademo .
Note If the URL doesn’t include a site name or if there’s a #, it’s the default site, so enter
Default.
585

=== PAGE 590 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
After entering the server and site information, the Tableau Project Name is generated.
99.. Select the data source that you just published.
1100.. Save your work.
Use a Connector in Tableau to Pull Reports from Marketing Cloud
Intelligence
Connect to Marketing Cloud Intelligence from Tableau Desktop, Tableau Server, Tableau Online, or
Tableau Prep using the Marketing Cloud Intelligence connector.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Admin
connector:
If your Tableau version is 2021.1 or earlier, download the Marketing Cloud Intelligence connector and
driver from the Tableau Exchange.
If you use Tableau 2021.2 or later, the Marketing Cloud Intelligence connector is included, you still need
to download the driver from the Tableau Exchange.
Note The Marketing Cloud Intelligence Connector in Tableau is supported in Tableau 2020.3 and
later.
11.. In Tableau, click Connect.
22.. Select Marketing Cloud Intelligence [Datorama] by Salesforce.
33.. Enter your Intelligence information:
aa.. From the Environment Platform dropdown list, select your Intelligence platform, which you can
obtain from the Marketing Cloud Intelligence URL.
bb.. Enter your Intelligence workspace ID. You can find the ID either inside the URL or by going to your
workspace settings.
cc.. For your access token, in Marketing Cloud Intelligence, go to Analyze & Act and select Tableau Data
Connection. Click Copy Token, and paste the token into Tableau.
Note If this is the first time you’re activating, you must first generate a token in Marketing
Cloud Intelligence. Click Activate Tableau Connector, and then click Generate.
••
As part of the activation, determine when to refresh the tables that the connector accesses.
••
The token is generated at the workspace level, so all users in the workspace have the same
token. You can change the token or revoke it.
••
When using the connector, you don’t need to create feeds of Tableau reports for delivery in
586

=== PAGE 591 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Marketing Cloud Intelligence, use your Tableau Reports instead.
dd.. Click Sign In. All your Tableau reports from Marketing Cloud Intelligence appear under Table.
ee.. If you don’t see a new report under Table, go to the Marketing Cloud Intelligence [Datorama]
Connector in Tableau tab and click Run Now to refresh the reports.
ff.. When you see the reports that you need, drag them in Tableau and visualize your data.
Use Database Exports to Export Datasets
Export data from Marketing Cloud Intelligence, and connect it to an enterprise database such as
Snowflake and PostgreSQL. With Database Exports, automate the export of Intelligence marketing data.
Enhance enterprise-wide analytics by making marketing insights accessible, and get a full view of your
company’s data.
Create a Database Export
Create a database export to export marketing data from Marketing Cloud Intelligence, and import it to
an external database. Select the criteria that you want to export, define scheduling to determine when
the export occurs, and map the source data fields to the database fields.
Create a Database Export
Create a database export to export marketing data from Marketing Cloud Intelligence, and import it to
an external database. Select the criteria that you want to export, define scheduling to determine when
the export occurs, and map the source data fields to the database fields.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a database export: Admin
Before creating a database export, configure the database you’re connecting to. This is done in the
Integrations tab. For more information see Adding or Editing Database Integrations.
587

=== PAGE 592 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
11.. From the Analyze & Act tab, select Database Exports.
22.. Click Create New.
33.. Define the data that you want to export.
44.. Map the source data fields to the destination database fields.
55.. Configure the database export feed.
66.. Save your work, and run the export.
Here’s a video about database exports:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/hzwBNZ7VLKAjTVCgTkL7ca
Define the Data to Export
Define the source dataset by selecting the dataset, required dimensions, and measurements and date
range.
Configure the Destination Database and Connect Data
Set the external database where you’re exporting the data to. Databases are configured in Workspace
Integrations. Configure the database first, and then you can select it.
Configure the Database Export Feed
After you connect to the database and map your fields, configure how the exported data is inserted
into your database table and how often to execute the export. This step defines what happens when
new data is loaded into the database and how to handle it.
Troubleshoot Database Exports
After a database export is created, view and manage exports execution in the History tab. If an export
fails, troubleshoot to find out what happened. You can download a report, and even rerun or
reprocess it.
Adding or Editing Database Integrations
Before creating a database export, configure an external database to import data from Marketing
Cloud Intelligence. The database user requires INSERT and DELETE permissions for at least one table.
Capitalize the table name for Snowflake databases to avoid connection failures.
Define the Data to Export
Define the source dataset by selecting the dataset, required dimensions, and measurements and date
range.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a database export: Admin
11.. From the Analyze & Act tab, select Database Exports.
22.. Create a database export, or edit one.
33.. Enter the name of the data that you’re exporting.
44.. Enter a description of the data.
588

=== PAGE 593 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
55.. Set the date range for the data that you’re exporting. For example, set the range for the last 90 days.
66.. Choose one of these options:
Take all data from the defined date range. For
Use data date
example, all data from the last 90 days.
Take only data that changed during the date
Modified date: range. If you only want the changes, use this
option.
77.. Select the dimensions and measurements that you’re exporting.
88.. Set a filter. For example, you want to only export data from a specific campaign and not all the
campaigns.
99.. To move onto the next step, click Next.
Configure the Destination Database and Connect Data
Set the external database where you’re exporting the data to. Databases are configured in Workspace
Integrations. Configure the database first, and then you can select it.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a database export: Admin
For more information, see Adding or Editing Database Integrations.
After you connect to the database, map the fields from your source data to the database fields to ensure
that the data is connected properly.
11.. From the Analyze & Act tab, select Database Exports.
22.. Create a database export, or edit one.
33.. At the bottom of the page, select Map to Destination.
44.. In the Destination Database area, select the database that you’re exporting to.
55.. After you connect to a database, all tables in the database that the user has INSERT and DELETE
permissions for are available for selection.
66.. Select the table that you’re connecting to. After you select a table, all available fields appear in the
Mapping area farther down the page. The fields change according to the table that you select.
77.. In the Mapping area, map fields from the dataset to the required field in the database. For example,
map the measurement Website Clicks to Clicks.
88.. Repeat this step for all dimensions and measurements that you want to map.
99.. To move onto the next step, click Next.
589

=== PAGE 594 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Configure the Database Export Feed
After you connect to the database and map your fields, configure how the exported data is inserted into
your database table and how often to execute the export. This step defines what happens when new
data is loaded into the database and how to handle it.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a database export: Admin
11.. From the Analyze & Act tab, select Database Exports.
22.. Create a database export, or edit one.
33.. At the bottom of the page, select Configure Feed.
44.. In the Load Mode section, select how you want to load new data into the database.
Update and Insert. Existing records are updated
if they exist in the destination table based on a
Upsert
combination of fields defined as upsert keys. If
they don’t exist, they’re inserted as new records.
All new data is incremented into the database
Incremental
and added to the existing data.
Every time new data is updated, it replaces all
Total Replace
the data in the database table.
55.. In the Trigger section, define when to execute the export. For example, set a daily frequency, and then
set a time. For example, you can have the data update every day at 8:00 AM.
66.. If you want to apply advanced settings on the export, in the Advanced section, set the export type.
Entire dataset Exports the entire dataset as one report.
Exports the dataset into separate reports. If you
Partitioning select this option, set the division by day, week,
month, and so on.
Replace empty values with a set value, then enter
a value. For example, replace all empty values
Replace empty values with the word NULL. All empty values are
replaced, no matter if they’re dimensions or
measurements.
77.. Define how to display unrelated measurements. For more information, see Unrelated Measurements
in Data Reports.
88.. To delete the report history after a specified time, set the Purge Report History Days and then enter a
value. For example, if you enter 30, the report’s history is deleted after 30 days.
590

=== PAGE 595 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Analyze Your Data with Marketing Cloud Intelligence
99.. To create the database export, click Create.
1100.. To create the database export and run the export, click Create & Run.
Troubleshoot Database Exports
After a database export is created, view and manage exports execution in the History tab. If an export
fails, troubleshoot to find out what happened. You can download a report, and even rerun or reprocess
it.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a database export: Admin
11.. From the Analyze & Act tab, select Database Exports.
22.. Select the export that you want to troubleshoot.
33.. On the toolbar, click History.
44.. If an export fails, select the row of the job, click More Actions, and then select Show Detailed Log to
understand why the export failed.
55.. If the dataset was created successfully but failed to load to the database table, click Rerun. This action
takes the dataset and loads it into the database again. For example, rerun a report if the credentials
failed during loading.
66.. To reprocess the entire job according to the same date range, click Re-Process Job.
77.. To download the data to a local file, click Download.
Adding or Editing Database Integrations
Before creating a database export, configure an external database to import data from Marketing Cloud
Intelligence. The database user requires INSERT and DELETE permissions for at least one table. Capitalize
the table name for Snowflake databases to avoid connection failures.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To add or edit database integrations: Admin
11.. From your workspace settings, on the left window, click Integrations.
22.. Select the Database tab.
33.. All database integrations appear here. To create an integration, click Create New Integration.
44.. Select the vendor.
55.. Enter a name.
66.. Configure the connection details, including host, port, database, warehouse, role, and account.
77.. To use a connection string instead, click Or, and then enter the string used for the connection.
591

=== PAGE 596 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
88.. Define the authentication details, including user, password, and if necessary, private key.
99.. Before you create the integration, check it to make sure that it works and is valid. At the top right-hand
side of the page, click Validate Connection.
1100.. If there are any errors, a red information icon appears that you can click to view more details. If the
integration is valid, click Create.
Query Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data with the API Builder
Use the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Query API Builder to perform advanced queries on your existing
data.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use the Query API Builder: Admin
11.. From the Analyze & Act tab, click Query API Builder.
22.. Select the workspace you’re including in the query.
33.. Set a date range for the query.
44.. Select the dimensions and measurements you’re including in the query.
Note If you add two dimensions with the same display name, the query can’t identify which data
stream type to look in. It’s recommended you provide unique names when naming the query.
55.. To filter by a specific dimension or measurement, click Open Filter.
66.. Click Generate Query.
Here’s an example of a generated query.
77.. To test the code, click Run Query.
88.. Copy the query and use it in your code when creating API calls.
Harmonize Your Data
Marketing Cloud Intelligence offers multiple tools for harmonizing your data. Because you can upload
data from various sources, you need a way to merge the data and provide a complete view of your
marketing activity. In most cases, no single data source holds all relevant data on a marketing event or
campaign. The data is shared by the multiple platforms that digital marketers use to do things like
promoting the campaign on multiple channels. To analyze the full picture, harmonize data from all
sources into one. If data isn’t harmonized, you must analyze each source individually—making it a
challenge to gain insights quickly and efficiently.
The Marketing Cloud Intelligence data model is marketing oriented and facilitates natural harmonization
of marketing data from multiple sources. Another option is to use data harmonization tools, like the
harmonization center, parent-child, calculated dimensions, and measurements.
592

=== PAGE 597 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
Here’s a video: Getting the Most out of the Harmonization Center:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/AW746Kr1G2VD5FzCx3pJ33?
Harmonize Data with the Harmonization Center
The Harmonization Center in the Connect & Mix tab, unifies, enriches, and validates your data in one
place. In the Harmonization Center, create and manage your naming convention patterns,
classifications, and harmonized dimensions.
Parent-Child Connections in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
A parent-child connection describes a case where two or more data streams are linked by a matching
entity key. This connection establishes hierarchical dependencies between entities, allowing for
grouping at various granular levels such as campaign, media buy, or creative. Matching entity keys
between the data streams are required to establish a parent-child relationship.
Fusing Data Between Datasets
Data fusion creates a link between dimensions that don’t already have a data model relationship
between them.
Custom Classifications in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Custom classifications are cross channel entities that are present in all data streams. They allow you to
link data streams together via an entity.
Harmonize Data with the Harmonization Center
The Harmonization Center in the Connect & Mix tab, unifies, enriches, and validates your data in one
place. In the Harmonization Center, create and manage your naming convention patterns, classifications,
and harmonized dimensions.
The main page contains an overview of your harmonized data.
The KPI status bar shows source dimensions, harmonized dimensions, and classification rules (1). Click
Fix & Maintain to monitor and remedy issues that occur with data governance directly within Marketing
Cloud Intelligence (2). View all your patterns (3), harmonized dimensions (4), and data classification
rules and perform actions directly from the Harmonization Center.
Naming Convention Patterns
In the distraction-filled world of a digital marketer, clarity is important. Therefore, when using different
marketing platforms, digital marketers often name an activity with all the information in the name.
Proper naming allows them to differentiate between the different campaigns, and understand
campaign goals and details at a glance without having to look elsewhere.
Data Classification
Classify your data without using a single line of code. For example, classify your sites by news, sports,
or entertainment, and so on. Upload a classification file and create a classification rule.
Validate and Maintain Your Harmonized Data in the Harmonization Center
Keeping track of your naming convention patterns, classifications, and harmonized dimensions is
593

=== PAGE 598 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
overwhelming and time-consuming. Fix & Maintain offers a solution for identifying data that doesn’t
adhere to your predefined naming conventions or data classifications. Validate and maintain
harmonized data with Fix & Maintain and if issues arise, fix, and adjust as needed.
Generate Media Names with the Media Naming Builder
Create consistent campaign, placement, and creative names that match your naming conventions
using the Media Naming Builder. Instead of manually generating names using other third party tools,
add hundreds of names instantly based on your naming convention patterns and avoid data
discrepancies.
Naming Convention Patterns
In the distraction-filled world of a digital marketer, clarity is important. Therefore, when using different
marketing platforms, digital marketers often name an activity with all the information in the name.
Proper naming allows them to differentiate between the different campaigns, and understand campaign
goals and details at a glance without having to look elsewhere.
Digital marketers usually abide by a certain structure or naming convention for the campaign name.
Creating a naming convention pattern deconstructs your dimension, which is in a naming convention
form, and creates harmonized dimensions for each segment of your naming convention. A naming
convention usually consists of the main details and contains a delimiter.
For example, in this naming convention each color represents an attribute and an underscore is used as
the delimiter. The naming convention can be divided into four attributes: Car Name, Car Category,
Promotion Name, and Site.
Here’s a video about naming convention patterns:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/beMMaYcnJS7QWghC4TMAeU
Create a Naming Convention Pattern
Create a naming convention pattern to deconstruct your dimension, which is in a naming convention
form, and create harmonized dimensions for each segment of your naming convention. A harmonized
dimension acts like any regular calculated dimension and can be used in the platform, for example in
reports.
Manage and Monitor Harmonized Dimensions
After harmonized dimensions are created, they appear in a list so you can easily manage them. Add
classifications and validations, see previews, find and replace in bulk, and more.
Multi-Delimiter Patterns and Structure Compliance
A multi-delimiter pattern contains different types of delimiters in a pattern, such as an underscore,
colon, and comma. Structure compliance determines how and when extractions take place. With a
single delimiter pattern, an extraction occurs only for dimension values that adhere to the pattern’s
exact structure. For example, dimensions that have the same number of positions as the dimension
that you’re currently creating this pattern for. When working with multi-delimiter patterns, the logic is
594

=== PAGE 599 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
different.
Create a Naming Convention Pattern
Create a naming convention pattern to deconstruct your dimension, which is in a naming convention
form, and create harmonized dimensions for each segment of your naming convention. A harmonized
dimension acts like any regular calculated dimension and can be used in the platform, for example in
reports.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create naming convention patterns: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Harmonization Center, and then Patterns.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Define the general details:
aa.. Enter a descriptive name so you can easily identify the pattern later.
bb.. Select the Source Dimension that holds the pattern you want to deconstruct.
cc.. To filter by a certain data source or data stream, click Add Filter.
dd.. Select List to include current data streams.
ee.. Select Contains to include future data streams.
ff.. Select the structure that best suits your naming convention, or select Manual Setup to manually
create a naming structure from scratch. Then, enter the number of positions and delimiters.
gg.. Click Apply.
44.. Construct your pattern.
aa.. Marketing Cloud Intelligence breaks down the original values of the source dimension according to
the naming structure (1).
bb.. Navigate to each position and type in the name of the new harmonized dimension or select one
from the dropdown (2).
cc.. The Extract toggle is turned on by default. A harmonized dimension is created for each position
after the pattern is created. If you don’t need harmonized dimensions, for example for a serial
number, then turn off the toggle (3).
dd.. To change the delimiter, enter the required delimiter (4).
ee.. Click Add Position and continue selecting the dimensions (5). For example, if your naming
convention contains an additional position.
ff.. Structure Compliant is on by default. Extractions occur for dimension values that adhere to this
pattern's exact structure. For example, dimensions that have the same number of positions as the
dimension that you’re creating this pattern for (6). This toggle has different results depending on the
pattern type. For more detailed information, see Multi Delimiter Patterns and Structure Compliance.
55.. Click Done.
New harmonized dimensions are created according to how you defined the extraction when creating
harmonized dimensions. For example, if we look at this naming convention:
595

=== PAGE 600 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
Product_TargetAudience_Offer_PlacementType_CreativeType.
When breaking it down, you get 5 positions, where each position produces a harmonized dimension.
In this image, the naming convention pattern produced 5 different harmonized dimensions: Product,
Target Audience, Offer, Placement Type, and Creative Type.
Manage and Monitor Harmonized Dimensions
After harmonized dimensions are created, they appear in a list so you can easily manage them. Add
classifications and validations, see previews, find and replace in bulk, and more.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To manage and monitor harmonized dimensions: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Harmonization Center and then Harmonized Dimensions.
22.. View all of your harmonized dimensions.
33.. To review where the harmonized dimension is used and replace it with another dimension, click Find/
Replace.
44.. To view more details about a harmonized dimension, double-click it.
aa.. To add another layer of validation, such as a list of products, click Add Validation (1).
bb.. To classify your harmonized dimension by categories, click Add Classification. You’re redirected to
the Data Classification page, and the classification rule is filtered according to your selected
harmonized dimension (2).
cc.. Data Preview shows what’s going to be extracted. In this example, Product 1, Product 2, Product 3,
and Product 4 are extracted (3).
dd.. For a full view of your data, click Export when you want to remove a dimension and then validate
your file. For example, if you have four products and you don’t want Product 1 to be included in
your data. Export the data, remove Product 1, and then import the file as a validation file (4).
ee.. In EXTRACT, review what’s going to be extracted (5).
ff.. Enter the default string to be returned for unrecognized data (6).
gg.. If you created a classification rule that is based on this harmonized dimension it appears in
CLASSIFY. Edit or delete it from here (7).
55.. Click Done and save changes.
Multi-Delimiter Patterns and Structure Compliance
A multi-delimiter pattern contains different types of delimiters in a pattern, such as an underscore, colon,
and comma. Structure compliance determines how and when extractions take place. With a single
delimiter pattern, an extraction occurs only for dimension values that adhere to the pattern’s exact
structure. For example, dimensions that have the same number of positions as the dimension that you’re
currently creating this pattern for. When working with multi-delimiter patterns, the logic is different.
596

=== PAGE 601 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
Structure Compliant
When Structure-Compliant is toggled on, any dimensional value to which the pattern is applied is
compared to the pattern’s structure for an exact match. With multi-delimiter patterns, an exact match
occurs when a given dimension value and the applied pattern use the exact same type, quantity, and
order of delimiters.
This table describes what happens when a pattern structure is applied to the specified dimensions and
its results. The delimiters are in red. An extraction occurs only when there’s an exact match between the
pattern structure and the structure of the given dimension value. Any difference in the structure is
considered invalid, so no extractions occur.
In addition, there’s a sensitivity to whether extraction results are allowed to contain delimiter values. If an
extraction result contains one of the delimiters, it’s considered invalid. In this example, because the
second position extracts “35_50 HI,” which contains one of the defined delimiters, the entire extraction
is invalid.
Non-Structure Compliant
When Structure-Compliant is toggled off, a dimension value doesn’t have to match the applied pattern’s
structure in its entirety, from the first delimiter to the last. It follows the pattern structure up until the
extracted position. In the examples, although the dimension values don’t follow the entire pattern
structure from start to end, the values do follow it up until the extracted position. Extractions up until
this point are executed.
If the next delimiter in line is missing, the entire string that appears after the existing delimiter is
extracted as is and is attributed to the next position. In these examples, the second delimiter (/)
pertaining to position number 2 is missing. Everything that appears after the first delimiter (_) is
extracted and is attributed to position number 2.
If a position before the current extraction contains delimiters, the current extraction is considered
invalid. In these examples, there are no delimiters in any positions that come before positions 1 and 2.
Therefore, the extractions pertaining to these two positions are executed. Extractions from position 3
and onward are considered invalid because they contain delimiters.
The extraction result for position 2 contains a delimiter. Extraction results are only sensitive to delimiters
if they appear in positions before the current extraction. Delimiters that appear within the current
597

=== PAGE 602 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
extraction itself are considered valid, so the extraction is executed.
The string value that appears in the last position is extracted as is regardless of its contents, with or
without delimiters.
Data Classification
Classify your data without using a single line of code. For example, classify your sites by news, sports, or
entertainment, and so on. Upload a classification file and create a classification rule.
Create a Data Classification Rule
Create a classification rule to classify your data. You can upload a classification file or define the
classification from scratch.
Classification Files
Use classification files when creating classification rules and to tell Marketing Cloud Intelligence how
to classify the values.
Create a Data Classification Rule
Create a classification rule to classify your data. You can upload a classification file or define the
classification from scratch.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a classification rule: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Harmonization Center and then Data Classification.
22.. Click Add New.
33.. Define the classification rule:
aa.. Enter a name (1).
bb.. Select the dimension the classification rule applies to (2).
Note Custom dimensions can’t be used in Classification Rules.
cc.. Upload a classification file or create one (3).
dd.. Determine what to do with unclassified values (4.).
Select to return a default string whenever
Default String unclassified values are found. You can change
the string if necessary.
Select if you don’t want the unclassified values
Return Source Dimension
to be aggregated.
598

=== PAGE 603 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
ee.. After the classification loads, set the Key and Value columns and control the way Marketing Cloud
Intelligence classifies the values.
44.. Click Done.
After the classification rule is created, a data stream is created automatically.
See Also
Create a Classification File from Scratch
Configure Classification Rules
Classification Files
Use classification files when creating classification rules and to tell Marketing Cloud Intelligence how to
classify the values.
For example, to categorize car models into these categories: SUV, Supermini, Family, Compact Crossover,
and Subcompact. You can use any type of file format; however, you must have at least 2 headers and a
maximum of 50 columns.
Create a Classification File from Scratch
When creating classification rules you either upload a classification file or you create it from scratch.
The file tells Marketing Cloud Intelligence how to classify your data.
Create a Classification File from Scratch
When creating classification rules you either upload a classification file or you create it from scratch. The
file tells Marketing Cloud Intelligence how to classify your data.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
Create classification file: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Harmonization Center and then Data Classification.
22.. Edit a classification rule or create one.
33.. From the Upload Classification File dropdown, select Create a Classification File.
44.. Name the columns.
55.. Enter classification values.
66.. Click Done.
Configure Classification Rules
After you upload or create a classification file using data classification, customize and configure the
columns in your file. Determine which column is the Key column and which is the Value column.
Control the way the system recognizes values in your file as well.
599

=== PAGE 604 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
Configure Classification Rules
After you upload or create a classification file using data classification, customize and configure the
columns in your file. Determine which column is the Key column and which is the Value column. Control
the way the system recognizes values in your file as well.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure classification rules: Admin
Note If you’re using LiteConnect dimensions when classifying, the Match Type is limited to Exact
Match only, and Case Sensitivity is disabled.
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Harmonization Center and then Data Classification.
22.. Edit a classification rule, or create one.
33.. Here’s an example of a classification rule:
(Car Model: notice the key icon) - The column
that contains the unique dimension values on
which the classification is applied. The key
column is Ford Fusion.
Note If you upload or create a file that
Key Column
doesn’t contain a column with unique
Dimension values, Marketing Cloud
Intelligence highlights the duplicate values
for you. You can then use the in-line editing
tool to remove them.
(Car Category ) - The column that displays the
Value Column classification values. In our example, both Ford
Fusion and Honda CR-V were classified as Family.
44.. To control how Marketing Cloud Intelligence classifies the values for the Key and Value columns and
when classification takes place, click the Options button which is located to the right of the column
name.
600

=== PAGE 605 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
Excludes the column from your classification rule
None
entirely.
Sets the column as the Key column and defines
Set as KEY
how you want to determine the value.
(Selected by default) The full Dimension value
Exact Match must be matched with one of the keys in order
for classification to take place.
The values in the Key column contain the values
Key Contains Dimension
in the Source Dimension.
The values in the Source Dimension contain the
Dimension Contains Key
values in the Key column.
Dimension values must be capitalized the same
Case Sensitive
as the Key Values for the classification to apply.
Sets the Key column as the Value column
Set as Value instead, or vice versa if you’re editing the Value
column.
Classification Rule Example
This table shows how configuration types affect data classification and what happens when data is
classified.
CCllaassssiifificcaattiioonn RRuullee EExxaammppllee
601

=== PAGE 606 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
CCllaassssiifificcaattiioonn RRuullee EExxaammppllee
This table shows how configuration types affect data classification and what happens when data is
classified.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Configuration
Dimension Value Key Value Match Type Result
‘Facebook’ ‘Facebook Ads’ Exact Match Not Classified
‘Facebook’ ‘Facebook Ads’ Key Contains Classified
Dimensions
‘Facebook’ ‘Facebook Ads’ Dimension Contains Key Not Classified
Match Types:
If the Dimension Value is Facebook and the Key
Exact Match Value is Facebook Ads, then classification can’t
take place because there’s no full match.
If the Dimension Value is Facebook and the Key
Key Contains Dimension
Value is Facebook Ads, classification takes place.
If the Dimension Value is Facebook and the Key
Dimension Contains Key Value is Facebook Ads, then case classification
doesn’t take place.
Validate and Maintain Your Harmonized Data in the Harmonization Center
Keeping track of your naming convention patterns, classifications, and harmonized dimensions is
overwhelming and time-consuming. Fix & Maintain offers a solution for identifying data that doesn’t
adhere to your predefined naming conventions or data classifications. Validate and maintain harmonized
data with Fix & Maintain and if issues arise, fix, and adjust as needed.
Fix and Maintain Interface
Fix & Maintain, part of the Harmonization Center, identifies data that doesn’t adhere to predefined
naming conventions or data classifications. In the Harmonization Center landing page, click Fix &
Maintain.
Fix and Maintain Interface
Fix & Maintain, part of the Harmonization Center, identifies data that doesn’t adhere to predefined
naming conventions or data classifications. In the Harmonization Center landing page, click Fix &
Maintain.
602

=== PAGE 607 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
Status Bar
The status bar is split into these sections:
•
(1) An overall assessment of your data based on an average of the KPI totals.
•
(2) An assessment of your data based on source dimensions or harmonized dimensions.
•
(3) The percentage of source dimension values compliant with the data classifications you defined.
KPI Table
Breaks down the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for both harmonized dimensions and data
classification depending on the toggle setting. The default display shows the KPIs that are
underperforming at the top, allowing you to review the entities that need the most attention first.
You can sort the table by:
•
Status — Sorts the table to show the KPIs doing poorly at the top.
•
Type — Groups KPIs by type.
•
Name — Sorts the table alphabetically.
Use the search bar to locate a specific source dimension, harmonized dimension, or data classification
value. You can filter the table by selecting an option from the dropdown menu.
Here’s a video about Fix & Maintain:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/xkyMVHNwuXKujqLNYroRET?
Fixing Data in Fix & Maintain
Use Fix & Maintain to make corrections to source dimensions, harmonized dimensions, and data
classification values. There are two ways to fix data. To make bulk changes, export exception reports
manually, fix incorrect values, and then import the fixed data. To make a few changes, use in-line
editing within Fix & Maintain and make changes directly in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
Fixing Data in Fix & Maintain
Use Fix & Maintain to make corrections to source dimensions, harmonized dimensions, and data
classification values. There are two ways to fix data. To make bulk changes, export exception reports
manually, fix incorrect values, and then import the fixed data. To make a few changes, use in-line editing
within Fix & Maintain and make changes directly in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
Fix Multiple Files Using Import and Export
Use import and export to fix multiple files when exceptions occur. There are two types of export
options; export and download a file, or use schedule export to export the report at a set time and
send to specific recipients.
603

=== PAGE 608 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
Fix Single File Using In-Line Edit
To fix an entity inside Fix & Maintain, use in-line editing. A list of your harmonized data, including
harmonized dimensions, source dimensions, and data classifications appears in order of least
successful harmonization to most successful.
Modify Harmonized Dimension
If after applying fixes to a harmonized dimension the setup changes by deleting a pattern or adding or
removing a dimension, future fixes aren’t saved.
Fix Multiple Files Using Import and Export
Use import and export to fix multiple files when exceptions occur. There are two types of export options;
export and download a file, or use schedule export to export the report at a set time and send to specific
recipients.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use Fix & Maintain: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Harmonization Center, and then Fix & Maintain.
22.. Select the entities to export.
33.. To create a downloadable report with each entity in a separate sheet, click Export from the top
toolbar.
44.. Edit the files using a local editor and then import the files back into Fix & Maintain. Or
55.. Create a scheduled export with a defined schedule and recipients. Click Create Scheduled Export and
then:
aa.. Enter the report name.
bb.. Enter a description for the report.
cc.. Enter the recipients’ email addresses.
dd.. Define the frequency. For example, daily at 9:00 AM.
ee.. Click Save.
Fix Single File Using In-Line Edit
To fix an entity inside Fix & Maintain, use in-line editing. A list of your harmonized data, including
harmonized dimensions, source dimensions, and data classifications appears in order of least successful
harmonization to most successful.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use Fix & Maintain: Admin
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Harmonization Center, and then Fix & Maintain.
604

=== PAGE 609 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
22.. Hover over an entity that needs fixing and click Fix.
33.. In the Needs Fixing tab, view all entities that must be fixed.
44.. Double-click a column and enter a new value.
55.. Save your work.
Modify Harmonized Dimension
If after applying fixes to a harmonized dimension the setup changes by deleting a pattern or adding or
removing a dimension, future fixes aren’t saved.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use Fix & Maintain: Admin
For example, you have a harmonized dimension called Market that is made up from Media Buy and
Campaign. You apply fixes to Market, and later decide a Media Buy pattern no longer feeds the Market
harmonized dimension so you remove Media Buy. Removing Media Buy changes the harmonized
dimension, and any new fixes made to the harmonized dimension Market aren’t saved.
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, select Harmonization Center, and then Fix & Maintain.
22.. Hover over the entity to correct, and click Fix.
33.. In the Fixed tab, copy and save your fixed report.
44.. Hover over the selected harmonized dimensions and click Delete Fixes.
55.. Apply the fixes in the Needs Fixing tab or by importing an exception report.
Generate Media Names with the Media Naming Builder
Create consistent campaign, placement, and creative names that match your naming conventions using
the Media Naming Builder. Instead of manually generating names using other third party tools, add
hundreds of names instantly based on your naming convention patterns and avoid data discrepancies.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To install the media naming builder: Admin
You can also install the Media Naming Builder via the Marketplace as an app. For more information, see
Media Naming Builder App.
Requirements
Before installing the Media Naming Builder, create patterns. See Create a Naming Convention Pattern.
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, select Harmonization Center.
605

=== PAGE 610 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
22.. To install the Media Naming Builder, roll over a pattern and click the Media Naming Builder icon.
The Media Naming Builder installs and is ready for use.
33.. Enter the required values, and build your media name. If a validation file was used when creating the
pattern, select the values from the dropdown list. If not, manually enter the values.
44.. Click Add Combinations.
A list of all the combinations appears on the right-hand side. One group is created for all the
combinations.
55.. Add more combinations as needed.
If you add another combination it appears as a new group under the first one.
66.. After you’re done building names, click Export.
An Excel file of your names is created. Use caution when changing the names in the Excel file, because
your changes can affect your patterns.
Parent-Child Connections in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
A parent-child connection describes a case where two or more data streams are linked by a matching
entity key. This connection establishes hierarchical dependencies between entities, allowing for grouping
at various granular levels such as campaign, media buy, or creative. Matching entity keys between the
data streams are required to establish a parent-child relationship.
Parent-child data streams are linked at the database level and are poured into one data pool, sharing
dimensional values. This connection allows for a complete view of the data sets from both data streams.
606

=== PAGE 611 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
Measurements aren’t shared across data streams in a parent-child relationship, and can be stored only in
their own data stream. For example, measurements from an ‘Ads’ data stream can’t be stored in a
‘conversion’ data stream. However, when both data streams are linked together in a parent-child
relationship, the measurements from both data streams can be viewed alongside each other.
In a parent-child relationship, both the parent and the child data streams have equal power in
contributing to the data pool to which they belong. Meaning, any data stream that is the first to
introduce an entity key to the parent-child data pool determines and dictates the hierarchy and
attributes for the introduced entity key.
Over time more sources can be added to a parent-child data pool that share the same entity keys but
have an updated hierarchy and attributes. You can configure which data streams update attributes and
hierarchy to keep up with the new updates. All entity keys and attributes are shared between all data
streams in the data pool. After the updated values are introduced, data streams that have permissions to
update, update the attributes or hierarchy for all shared entity keys.
Define a Parent Data Stream
Define a parent data stream to determine a connection between two data streams using a shared
entity.
Parent-Child Use Cases
You can use parent-child connections when there are multiple data streams that share the same keys,
but have unique attributes, and you must share a hierarchy between them. Here are examples of when
parent-child can be used.
Define a Parent Data Stream
Define a parent data stream to determine a connection between two data streams using a shared entity.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To define a parent data stream: Admin
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, click Data Streams and then Data Streams list.
22.. Select the data stream you’re assigning as a parent data stream and click Edit.
33.. Scroll down to Parent Child settings.
44.. From the Parent Data Stream dropdown list, select the data stream to set as the parent data stream.
55.. To view the streams in the parent-child data pool, click View All.
66.. In the Data Updates Permissions section, determine how your data stream feeds the parent-child
dimensional pool with these options:
Update Attributes (1) - Updates existing mapped attributes in the parent-child data pool every time
the data stream is ingested.
607

=== PAGE 612 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
Inherit Attributes and Hierarchy (2) - Prevents existing attributes and hierarchies from being updated.
Update Attributes and Hierarchy (3) - Updates existing mapped attributes and the media buy,
campaign, or site hierarchy in the parent-child data pool at every data ingestion.
Note Selecting this option enables the Override Media Buy Hierarchy option in the More
Options section and can’t be disabled.
77.. Save your changes.
88.. To apply the changes, the child data stream must be reprocessed. Recreating your data can have major
effects on the data. For more information see Re-Process, Re-Run and Re-Create.
99.. Select how to reprocess the data, and then click Recreate.
Parent-Child Use Cases
You can use parent-child connections when there are multiple data streams that share the same keys,
but have unique attributes, and you must share a hierarchy between them. Here are examples of when
parent-child can be used.
Use Case 1: Updating a parent data stream with measurements from a child
data stream
The parent data stream contains entity keys, attributes and measurements, and the child data stream
contains dimensions and measurements. You want to update the parent data stream with the
measurements that exist in the child data stream to match campaign keys. This means that you can view
campaign attributes from the parent data stream alongside measurements from the child data stream.
To do this, select the Updates Attributes and Hierarchy option for the Parent data stream.
This image shows how the data appears after the settings are defined for the parent data stream and the
child data stream:
Use Case 2: Classifying a parent data stream with attributes from a child
data stream
The parent data stream contains dimensions and measurements, and the child data stream contains
entity keys and attributes. You want the child data stream to update the attributes of the parent data
stream, while keeping the dimension hierarchy of the parent data stream. This means that you can view
attributes from the child data steam alongside measurements from the parent data stream. To do this,
apply the Update Attributes option to the Child data stream.
608

=== PAGE 613 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
This image shows how the data appears after the settings are defined for the parent data stream and the
child data stream:
Use Case 3: Entities Only
The parent data stream contains entity keys and attributes, and the child data stream contains
dimensions and measurements. You want the parent data stream to update the child's attributes for the
matching keys (Media Buy Key), while keeping its dimension hierarchy. This means that you can view
dimensions and measurements from the child, alongside the entity keys and attributes from the parent
data stream.
To do this, apply the Inherit Attributes and Hierarchy option to the Child data stream.
This image shows how the data appears after the settings are defined for the parent data stream and the
child data stream:
Fusing Data Between Datasets
Data fusion creates a link between dimensions that don’t already have a data model relationship
between them.
For example, campaign and site dimensions have a data model relationship, whereas campaign and a
generic dimension don’t. The link created by the data fusion is based on identical values of the fused
dimensions. Values that are similar are viewed with attributes and measurements that are associated
with one another. In this example, Dimension A is fused with Dimension B, resulting in a link between
the two dimensions.
Fusion is a workspace-level setting, so it doesn’t require data stream reprocessing to take effect. It’s
created dynamically at run time as part of the query processing, much like calculated measurements and
dimensions.
Data fusions in Marketing Cloud Intelligence are transitive. If Dimension A is fused with Dimension B,
and Dimension B is fused with Dimension C, then Dimension A is also fused with Dimension C because
of their chain relationship. Therefore, the measurements and attributes that are linked to Dimension C
are also linked to Dimension A, and vice versa for like values.
Additional information about data fusion:
609

=== PAGE 614 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
•
Data fusion implemented between the same two entities potentially won't work -- for example, two
media buy attributes fused with two social element attributes.
•
Multiple fusions between the same entities aren’t allowed, but can happen.
•
Transitive fusions between entities that already have a data model relationship between them don’t
work. For example, Site Name and Conversion Tag already have a relationship between them by virtue
of the data model.
When to Use Data Fusion
Use data fusion to unify data that doesn’t naturally harmonize by virtue of the data model based on
shared dimension values.
Create a Data Fusion
Create a data fusion to link two datasets with a shared dimension together.
Applying Filters to Fused Dimensions
When applying a filter to fused dimensions, the filtering impacts the datasets associated with all the
fused dimensions.
When to Use Data Fusion
Use data fusion to unify data that doesn’t naturally harmonize by virtue of the data model based on
shared dimension values.
For example, Ads and Fraud Detection datasets are mapped to a generic data stream type. You want to
see a unified dataset with Ads data next to Fraud Detection data. Create a data fusion between them
because they both share the Media Buy External Key dimension.
After you set up the data fusion, you can view each dimension to which the fusion was applied with
measurements related to the other dimension.
Additional Use Cases
Because data fusion is transitive, you can also apply a data classification rule to Dimension B, which is
already fused with Dimension A. In this case, the classification for B is also applied to A.
Data classification is a system-generated data fusion between the Classification Dimension and the
dimension to which it’s applied.
610

=== PAGE 615 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
The result is another case of a chain relationship between three dimensions connected by two data
fusions, with a linear connection between them.
Data fusion saves you from creating the classification rule for each dimension in a chain of fused
dimensions.
You can also apply one data classification to another data classification.
The first data classification is a system-generated data fusion between Dimension A and the classification
dimension applied to it, referred to as A1.
The second data classification is also a system-generated data fusion between A1 and the new
classification dimension applied to it in succession, referred to as B1.
The result is another case of three dimensions, connected by two data fusions, with a linear connection
between them. B1 classifications also now apply to Dimension A.
Use data fusion in cases where two different classifications must be applied to the same dimension.
Create two classification columns within the same classification file that is used in the data classification.
Sometimes these classifications aren’t available within the same file or are created by different teams. In
that case, you can use this solution for the same effect.
Create a Data Fusion
Create a data fusion to link two datasets with a shared dimension together.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a data fusion: Admin
Note You can’t select overarching entities, calculated dimensions, and Web Analytics Page Path
dimensions for a data fusion.
11.. On the Connect & Mix tab, click Dimensions and then Data Fusion.
22.. Click Add New.
611

=== PAGE 616 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Harmonize Your Data
aa.. Give the data fusion a unique name (1) and add a description (2).
bb.. On the left side, the Dimension dropdown (3) lists all the dimensions that are mapped in your
workspace. Select the first dimension that you want to create the data fusion for. For example,
select Media Buy Key.
cc.. After you select a dimension, the Dimension dropdown on the right (4) lists all the dimensions that
can be fused with the first dimension. Select the dimension to fuse. For example, select DF Media
Buy Key. The Case-Sensitive option is selected by default (5). Marketing Cloud Intelligence doesn’t
perform data fusions on dimensional values that don’t follow the same capitalization rules.
33.. Save your work.
Applying Filters to Fused Dimensions
When applying a filter to fused dimensions, the filtering impacts the datasets associated with all the
fused dimensions.
For example, when filtering on Unit Name “d” (from the generic data stream), values of the Media Buy
Name dimension from the Ads data stream are also filtered accordingly.
Custom Classifications in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Custom classifications are cross channel entities that are present in all data streams. They allow you to
link data streams together via an entity.
Custom classifications are attributes of the main entity in each data stream type. For example, in the Ads
data stream type, ‘Custom Classification 1’ is an attribute of ‘Media Buy,’ whereas in the Social Object
data stream type it’s an attribute of ‘Social Element’.
Custom classifications aren’t tied to a data stream, thus deleting the data stream doesn’t delete
dimensional values already uploaded by that data stream. The dimensional values are present in your
workspace, but aren’t connected to any measurement, and don’t affect your data or workspace row
usage. If you need to delete dimensions that are related to custom classifications, you must manually
remove them via the Dimension Explorer.
Custom Classification Use Cases
Use this example to see how custom classifications are used to connect data from different data
streams.
Custom Classification Use Cases
Use this example to see how custom classifications are used to connect data from different data streams.
If you have this data in the Ads data stream type:
612

=== PAGE 617 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
And you have this classification file for Product:
In the Ads data stream, ‘Product Key’ is mapped to ‘Custom Classification 1:
The classification data stream is mapped in any data stream type, and the mapping looks like this:
You can now slice the data from the Ads data stream type using ‘Custom Classification 1’.
If something changes, for example the color of Product ID ‘222’ changes, change the classification file
and process it. You don’t need to reprocess the Ads data stream for the data to change.
Media Transparency Center
The Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center allows you to ingest, unify, and analyze
Media Plan and Delivery data to pace, track costs, and effectively optimize your media budgets and
campaigns.
For example, if you have a budget for an insertion order (IO), you can compare it to the generated media
cost and calculate how much of the budget has been spent and at what rate. If you are at 50% of the
allocated time frame and 60% of your budget is already spent on the campaign, you can see an over-
delivery and adjust as needed.
Note The Media Transparency Center is a premium feature available upon purchase
Media Transparency Center Setup
Learn how to set up the Media Transparency Center for the first time.
Creating an IO in the Media Transparency Center
Learn how to create an IO in the Media Transparency Center.
Attaching a Delivery Item to an IO in the Media Transparency Center
Learn how to attach a delivery item to an IO in the Media Transparency Center.
Dimensions and Measurements in the Media Transparency Center
View a list of the available dimensions and measurements in the Media Transparency Center.
Media Transparency Center FAQ
Read our FAQ to learn about the most common Media Transparency Center questions and answers.
613

=== PAGE 618 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
Grouping Delivery Data in the Media Transparency Center
Learn about grouping delivery data in the Media Transparency Center.
Actualized and Recalculated Costs in the Media Transparency Center
Learn about actualized and recalculated costs in the Media Transparency Center.
Workspace Settings in the Media Transparency Center
Learn about the workspace settings in the Media Transparency Center.
Media Transparency Center Setup
Learn how to set up the Media Transparency Center for the first time.
There are five steps to setting up the Media Transparency Center:
Step 1: Identify Essential IO (Insertion Order) Fields
Buy Data, the data containing all your planned activities and costs (sometimes also referred to as ‘Media
Plan’ or ‘Planned Data’), can come in through a variety of platforms, such as Salesforce, MediaOcean,
Nexelus, Google Sheets, and others. While Buy Data might arrive in different formats, it must contain a
core set of fields that are essential for an IO’s structure and function.
These are the essential fields:
•
ID
•
Name
•
Start/End Dates
•
Cost Types
•
Rate
•
Margin (optional)
•
Budget
Here are some examples of field these fields’ values:
STEP 2: Set up Custom Cost Types
Marketing Cloud Intelligence has a set of default Cost Types you can use for your IOs. These Cost Types
are as follows: CPM, CPC, CPCV, CPE, CPV, VCPM, CPA, dCPM, dCPC and FLAT. However, if your Buy Data
contains a Cost Type that isn’t one of these, you can add it using the ‘Custom Cost Types’ option in the
Workspace settings. Creating a Custom Cost Type can be done quickly and easily, as follows:
11.. Define the Cost Type in Media Transparency Center
614

=== PAGE 619 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
First navigate to the Cost Center by clicking the Intelligence (Datorama) logo on the top right, then
your User Name, then Workspace in the left pane menu, and finally on ‘Cost Center’.
Then set your Custom Cost Type by selecting the Measurement to which it applies, and assign a
Display Name exactly as it appears in the Buy Data file.
For example, GoingSolar’s digital marketing activity puts a strong emphasis on generating leads for
prospective clients. Because leads are an expensive yet important resource, their generation amid all
marketing costs is closely watched. GoingSolar’s Buy Data therefore has CPL (Cost per Lead) as one of
its main Cost Types. CPL isn’t on the list of default Cost Types, so it has to be set up as a Custom Cost
Type:
Things to consider when configuring a Custom Cost Type:
••
The Measurement you select to base the Custom Cost Type upon can only be a Mapped Field that
exists in your Delivery Data. It is impossible to base Custom Cost Types on Filtered or Calculated
Measurements.
••
The selected Measurement can only be Mapped in one of the following Data Stream Types: Ads,
Conversion Tags, or Ads Verification'.
••
Custom Cost Type for a given IO is calculated as follows: <Selected Measurement> X IO Rate.
So in our example, if a given IO has generated a total of 211 Leads within a certain date range, and
the IO Rate for CPL for that IO is $2.5, the calculation the system would perform is: 211 X $2.5 =
$527.50:
••
Since the calculation performed by the Media Transparency Center for a Custom Cost Type is always
a direct multiplication of the <Selected Measurement> by the ‘IO Rate’, calculations that require
additional steps, must have these steps applied from within the mapping of the Selected
Measurement. For example, if the Custom Cost Type required is the ‘Cost per 1,000 Leads’, then the
Leads Generated value has to be divided by 1,000 from within the mapping of the Leads Generated
measurement:
This way, when the Multiplication in the Transparency Center occurs, the Selected Measurement is
already pre-divided by 1,000.
••
Apply a Cost Type function in the Buy Data data stream mapping
22.. Apply a Cost Type function in the Buy Data data stream mapping.
For any Custom Cost Type created, in order for it to work, it has to be referenced from the Mapping of
the Buy Data Stream using a dedicated Custom Cost Type Function:
COSTTYPE(<Name of Cost Type Field in the Buy Data File>)
This function searches for the Cost Type value in the Cost Center, obtains the Selected Measurement
and uses that to multiply by the IO Rate.
615

=== PAGE 620 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
Since Custom Cost Types are generally used in addition to Standard Cost Types, could handle both
cases in the Mapping formula of ‘IO Cost Type’. In such a case, the formula would be as follows:
if(csv['Cost Type']=='CPL')
{
return COSTTYPE(csv['Cost Type']);
}
else
{
return csv['Cost Type'];
}
STEP 3: Mapping your Buy Data
The following screenshot shows how each of the essential IO Fields should be mapped:
The IO Key or ID can either be found in the source file itself as the key that uniquely identifies each row
in question, as shown below:
If it isn’t present in the file as a unique identifier, you can create an IO Key using a mapping formula to
concatenate a group of fields that together identify each row uniquely:
The IO Name is the name given to the marketing activity in question. A common practice is to name the
row after the Campaign that this IO represents. Like the IO Key, the IO Name can also be created or
modified using a mapping formula
The IO Start Date and IO End Date indicate the date range during which an IO is active. Recalculations
aren’t carried out for dates on which an IO is NOT active.
The next fields refer to the IO Measurements:
•
IO Cost Type denotes the type of Recalculation that will be performed for a given IO. For example,
CPM means that if a certain IO has generated 20,000 Impressions, the Recalculated Cost is: (20,000 /
1000) * IO Rate = 20 * IO Rate
•
IO Rate is the Planned Cost or ‘price tag’ for every unit (or 1000 units). This is the rate that is used for
cost recalculations for a given IO. For example if a certain IO’s Cost Type is CPC and its IO Rate is
$0.20, then the Recalculated Cost would be: Total Number of Clicks X $0.2
•
IO Margin is optional. It denotes the Margin that is added to the Recalculated Cost (or to the Media
616

=== PAGE 621 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
Cost in cases of Dynamic Cost recalculations).
•
IO Capped Cost indicates the maximum value for Actualized Cost and its subsequent calculations,
capping them out after this value has been reached.
STEP 4: Connecting your Buy Data to your Delivery Data
You can connect your buy data to your delivery data using one of the following four methods:
11.. Associating each individual IO with its Delivery Items from the UI:
Start from the IO management tab, locate the relevant IO from the list and double-click it in order to
edit. Then, scroll down to the tab at the bottom entitled ‘Items’ and expand it in order to enter
Delivery items that this IO is associated with. In the example below, the Delivery items added are
identified by their Media Buy Keys:
You can also link IOs to Delivery data using a combination of Site and Campaign Keys, or by
‘Classification’ as explained separately in method 4. Linking your IOS to your Delivery data from within
each individual IO however, isn’t the best method to use when having to create this association at
scale.
22.. Mapping your Delivery data as part of your Buy Data:
Your Delivery Item Keys might appear in the Buy Data file, as shown here:
In this case, you can associate the IO Keys with the Delivery Item Keys by simply mapping the relevant
Delivery Field to the matching Intelligence Field in the Buy Data data stream:
The availability of the Delivery Items in your Buy Data however is rare and in most cases you won’t be
able to use this solution.
33.. Using an additional Buy Data Stream
You can associate your IOs with your Delivery Data by creating an additional Buy Data, data stream (in
addition to the original Buy Data Stream you already have) which includes your IO Keys alongside your
Delivery Item Keys:
Since MTC data is at the workspace level rather than at the data stream level, all ‘buy data’ data
streams created under the same workspace are part of the same pool of buy data. Therefore, any
617

=== PAGE 622 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
matching IO Key values ingested by different ‘buy data’ data streams are effectively considered as the
same IO entity, thus creating an association between IO keys and Media Buy Key Delivery Items in the
above example.
44.. Using the ‘MTC Classification’ method
IOs can be associated with Delivery Items by virtue of a shared MTC classification. In the example
below, IO Key cvb123 in the buy data and three media buy keys within the delivery data, all share the
same classification value 'term1'. The result is that IO key cvb123 is associated with the three delivery
items that have the same classification:
When using the MTC Classification method, in order to assign a classification value within the Buy
Data data stream, use the ‘IO Item Classification Term’ and in order to assign a classification value
within the Ads (Delivery) data, use the ‘Media Buy IO Classification’
STEP 5: QA Your Data
The first step is to ensure that the uploaded Buy Data has been converted successfully into IOs. To do
this, navigate to the IO Management tab, where you should see all the IOs displayed:
Next, access a few IOs randomly to make sure the IO Attributes such as IO Cost Type, IO Start Date, IO
End Date, IO Rate etc. are correct.
Additionally, verify that the IO's associated Delivery Keys are correct:
You can now visualize the connection between the Buy Data and the Delivery Data by creating a Table
Widget or a Pivot Table that has the IO Name with some of its Main Attributes of Interest. Also make sure
you include the Measurements related to the IO Cost Types, and the IO Recalculated Cost as shown in
the following example:
Finally, using the visualized data above, test the following:
•
IO Recalculated Cost for selected IOs as per the Measurement to which the Cost Type applies and the
IO Rate.
•
If you have any Custom Cost Types, test the calculation for those as well.
•
Look out for any “Other” values in the IO Name column. Any such values would suggest that the row
in question pertains to Delivery activity for which no IO has been defined, or one that has been
defined incorrectly with wrong Delivery Item Keys, or an incorrect date range.
618

=== PAGE 623 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
Creating an IO in the Media Transparency Center
Learn how to create an IO in the Media Transparency Center.
Note The Media Transparency Center is a premium feature available upon purchase
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center allows integration of media buying information
from a media buying system into your Marketing Cloud Intelligence account.
After the data is added to your account, Intelligence does all the complicated calculations for the defined
date ranges, according to the specified cost type and given rate, taking into account parameters like
monthly budget, booked units, and margins. This financial information is stored as IOs in Intelligence
and uses the data that comes from the various delivery systems to recalculate the actual media cost.
There are two ways to create an IO key in the platform:
11.. Add it through the IO Management sub tab under the Media Transparency Center tab.
22.. Uploading Buy Data into the platform, through TotalConnect
Method 1: IO Management
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, click Media Transparency Center.
22.. Select the IO Management sub tab.
33.. Click Add New.
In the General, Target Configuration, and Data sections:
11.. Enter the IO Key. The IO key is the unique id according to which the platform identifies the IO.
22.. Enter the IO Name.
33.. Choose the IO Cost Type – This is how your recalculated cost is calculated for the relevant delivery
items.
44.. IO Start Date — The start and end date determines the time period of the delivery data to which the
calculations in the IO are relevant. You can’t set a time range of more than three years for the IO — the
date picker won’t allow you to set an end date that exceeds this time range.
55.. Select the IO Target Type - This defines the target for the IO.
66.. Enter the IO Target Value that is used to measure the actual value against the margin.
77.. IO Rate — Enter the rate that defines the cost of a single unit your cost type refers to (for example, a
Click in the case of a CPC). However, if your cost type is dCPM or dCPC you don't need to add a rate
value.
88.. IO Capped Cost — Enter the capped cost for this IO that defines its budget limits.
99.. IO Booked Units — Enter the booked units for this IO. This sets its delivery limits (for example, booked
impressions).
1100.. IO Margin Rate — If a margin exists in your calculations, add it here. This margin is applied on top of
the recalculated cost.
1111.. IO Group Name — If you want to include this IO in a group, enter the group name here. Groups allow
619

=== PAGE 624 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
you to view the IO Measurements on a higher level using IO Group Measurements.
1122.. IO Group Capped Cost is the Capped Cost of the group level. It’s unrelated to the IO Capped Cost,
meaning it won’t sum up the IO capped Costs, but apply a separate capping at the IO Group level.
Method 2: Upload Buy Data with TotalConnect
11.. From the Connect & Mix tab, add a data stream through Total Connect.
22.. For Data Stream type select Buy Data.
33.. Enter the Data Stream Source. The file should have the fields specified in the IO Management subtab
as described earlier.
44.. Concerning the IO start and end dates, the limit for three years’ time range for an IO still stands. If the
source file contains IO with a time range that exceeds three years, the processing of the file will be
successful, however, the Problematic end date will be altered.
The Buy Data bucket maps the IO fields and create the IO entities automatically in the Media
Transparency Center.
Sometimes the cost type value in the original file doesn’t match the preset ones in the platform. In these
cases you can use the following formula (in this example for FLAT cost type):
IF(csv['RATE_TYPE'] == 'Flat Rate','FLAT',csv['RATE_TYPE'])
Where:
•
RATE_TYPE: is the name of the field in your file.
•
"Flat Rate": is how it appears in your file.
•
"FLAT": is the Marketing Cloud Intelligence value to convert to.
Now you can:
•
Create an IO in the Media Transparency Center IO Management screen.
•
Create an IO in the Media Transparency Center using a file upload.
Attaching a Delivery Item to an IO in the Media Transparency
Center
Learn how to attach a delivery item to an IO in the Media Transparency Center.
An IO holds financial data which together with delivery data enables recalculating media cost. In order to
attribute delivery data to an IO you will need to attach delivery items to an IO.
A delivery item can be a Media Buy, Site, Campaign, Vendor or Classification. These items hold Delivery
Data like Impressions, Clicks and other measurements which enables Cost Calculation.
Note For the MTC correlation between Delivery Items and IO's to take place correctly, you must add
your Buy Data and your Delivery Data to the same Workspace.
620

=== PAGE 625 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
There are two ways to add an item to an IO:
11.. Add the item through the Media Transparency Center (MTC) IO Management sub tab .
22.. Add a data stream of Buy Data into the platform with TotalConnect.
Method 1: IO Management
In the Media Transparency Center (MTC), under the Connect & Mix tab, select IO Management and
choose the IO you want to add an item to. In the Items section, click Add Item.
Then insert the appropriate key in its assigned field.
Each row should contain one combination of keys that describes a delivery item (for example. a Media
Buy Key or a Site key together with a Campaign Key).
In the Classification field enter the relevant value of the Media Buy IO Classification Dimension. When
adding an item based on Classification you must enter a Campaign Key as well.
Method 2: TotalConnect
To connect between an IO and an Item you can add a file through the TotalConnect Connector. The file
should be Dimension only and include the IO key and the relevant item key.
When uploading, the file automatically appears in the IO screen (there is no need to connect the two
Data Streams with a parent-child connection).
Notes:
•
If an IO's Delivery Items don't have Delivery Data for its Time period and filters, that IO is considered
never to have been fulfilled in terms of Delivery, and will not be visible in a Database Query. The
planned, or Buy Data, has to be matched with Measurements data in order to show up in a Widget,
Report, or Pivot Table. You will be able to see the IO planned data in Media Cost Center, but not in
queries.
•
When you attach a Delivery Item that doesn’t bring in any Data for the relevant IO date range it will
receive the 'Other' Value.
Dimensions and Measurements in the Media Transparency Center
View a list of the available dimensions and measurements in the Media Transparency Center.
Here are the Dimensions and Measurements available within the Media Transparency Center.
621

=== PAGE 626 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
Dimensions
Dimension Name Type Description
IO Key Text A unique identification for the
specific IO
IO Name Text The name that will help describe
and identify the IO in Marketing
Cloud Intelligence
IO Cost Type Text
Can be one of the following
types which will define how
Recalculated Cost (see further
down) will be calculated for the
relevant IO items (see below):
•
CPM
•
CPC
•
CPCV
•
CPE
•
CPV
•
VCPM
•
CPA
•
dCPM
•
dCPC
•
FLAT
This list can also contain custom
cost types as defined in the
workspace Settings > Media
Transparency Center > Custom
Cost Types
The following formula can be
used in as part of the mapping
process in order to match a cost
type to the preset ones in
Marketing Cloud Intelligence:
IF(csv['RATE_TYPE'] == "Flat
Rate","FLAT",csv['RATE_TYPE'])
Where:
•
RATE_TYPE: is the name of the
622

=== PAGE 627 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
Dimension Name Type Description
field in your file.
•
"Flat Rate": is how it appears
in your file.
•
"FLAT": is the Marketing Cloud
Intelligence value to convert
to.
IO Start Date Date The start date of the IO. The
calculations defined by this IO
will be relevant for delivery data
after this date.
IO End Date Date The end date of the IO. The
calculations defined by this IO
will be relevant for delivery data
before this date.
IO Target Type Text
Can be one of the following
types which will define the target
for the IO in the Margin
Adjustment tab.
•
CPM
•
CPC
•
CPA
This list can also contain custom
target types as defined in the
workspace Settings > Media
Transparency Center > Custom
Target Types
IO Target Value Number The target value that will be used
to measure the actual value
against in the Margin
Adjustment tab for an IO.
IO Rate Number The rate that will be used for
most cost types calculations (as
described above)
IO Capped Cost Number The planned budget for this IO
IO Group Capped Cost Number An IO Group planned budget,
623

=== PAGE 628 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
Dimension Name Type Description
separate from the IO capping.
IO Booked Units Number The booked units for this IO —
the amount of booked
impressions for a CPM based IO
IO Fixed Cost Number The fixed cost that will be used
for Flat cost type calculation
only.
IO Margin Rate Number
The margin that will be used on
top of the recalculated cost.
Note: When Margin Rate is
uploaded as part of a
TotalConnect Data Stream, it
must be a numeric value
between 0 and 1. For example to
apply a 10% margin the
uploaded value should be 0.1.
IO Custom Attribute 1,2,...,60 Text These additional attributes can
contain any additional
information to group and filter
the IOs.
Conversion Tag Key Text List of Conversion Tag Keys
which if set will define the
conversions that will attributed
to the IO, this will be used to
calculate cost for CPA IOs
Items Text List of Media Buy Keys or
Campaign and Site Keys that will
define the delivery data that will
be attributed to this IO
Measurements
Measurement Name Type Description
Aggregation
Function
IO Actualized Cost The sum of the IO
624

=== PAGE 629 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
Measurement Name Type Description
Aggregation
Function
(Accumulative) Actualized cost up until
the row’s date.
Actualized Cost
IO Share of Total * IO
Actualized Cost
(Accumulative) will give
the assumed actual cost
of the delivery item.
Calculation:
IO Actualized Cost *
(Recalculated cost/
Recalculated Cost
(total))
If the IO has a FLAT rate
the calculation will be:
IO Actualized Cost *
(Impression/
Impressions (total))
In other words, if there
are no Impressions the
value will be "0"
Can be used with: IO
dimensions, Dates, IO
items (Media Buy, Site,
Campaign)
IO Actualized Cost By Currency
The daily cost up to the
Day
point where the IO
Capped Cost was
reached. On the specific
day when that
happened it will contain
the remaining budget
up to the capped cost.
On the next days, the
625

=== PAGE 630 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
Measurement Name Type Description
Aggregation
Function
measurement will
contain zero cost.
The idea behind this
metric is to show the
IO’s total cost up to a
given day.
The formula behind this
measurement is:
Recalculated Cost -
Recalculated Cost
(Accumulative) +
Actualized Cost
(Accumulative)
Returns 0 if the
calculation results in a
negative value.
Can be used with: IO
Dimensions, Dates, IO
items (Media Buy, Site,
Campaign)
IO Group Actualized Currency
IO Group Share of Total
Cost
* IO Group Actualized
Cost (Accumulative)
gives the assumed
actual cost of the
delivery item when
looking at the IO group
level.
Can be used with: IO
dimensions, delivery
entities, Dates
626

=== PAGE 631 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
Measurement Name Type Description
Aggregation
Function
IO Group Actualized Currency
The sum of the IO
Cost (Accumulative)
Group’s Actualized cost
up until the row’s date.
Can be used with: IO
dimensions, Dates
IO Group Actualized Currency The total of IO Group
Cost (Total) - Actualized Cost. Used
for calculations
IO Booked Units Number LIFETIME
Always includes the
booked units as defined
on the IO
Can be used with: IO
dimensions, Dates, IO
items (Media Buy, Site,
Campaign)
IO Booked Units Number LIFETIME
The IO Booked Units,
(Accumulative)
divided by the amount
of days between IO
Start Date and IO End
Date, multiplied by the
amount of elapsed days
from IO Start Day to a
given day.
Can be used with: IO
dimensions, Dates
IO Capped Cost Currency LIFETIME
Always includes the
capped cost as defined
on the IO.
Can be used with: IO
dimensions, Dates
627

=== PAGE 632 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
Measurement Name Type Description
Aggregation
Function
IO Group Capped Cost currency LIFETIME
Always includes the
group capped cost as
defined on the IO level,
at the IO Group Capped
Cost field. This is a
separate value from the
IO capped cost,
meaning it will not sum
up the IO capped Costs,
but apply a separate
capping at the IO Group
level.
Can be used with: IO
dimensions, Dates
IO days Number MIN Total amount of days
between the IO start
date and end date
IO Expected Cost Currency LIFETIME
The IO Capped Cost,
(Accumulative)
divided by the amount
of days between IO
Start Date and IO End
Date, multiplied by the
amount of elapsed days
from IO start day to a
given day.
Can be used with: IO
dimensions, Dates
IO Expected Cost Currency Is calculated as
(Daily) [Capped Cost]/ [IO
Days]
IO Margin Rate (Daily) Number AVG The IO’s Daily Margin as
set in the Margin
Adjustment tab
628

=== PAGE 633 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
Measurement Name Type Description
Aggregation
Function
IO Media Cost Margin Currency SUM
The margin per media
buy, data uploaded by
the user.
When this data is
mapped the
recalculated cost is
calculated -
cost/(1- IO Margin Rate)
+ Media Buy Margin
IO Total Margin Currency SUM Is calculated- [Media
Buy Margin (currency) +
IO Margin Rate
(currency)]/recalculated
cost (no margin)
IO Media Cost Currency LIFETIME
The sum of the Media
(Accumulative)
Cost up until the row’s
date.
Can be used with: IO
dimensions, Dates
IO Group Media Cost Currency LIFETIME
The sum of the IO
(Accumulative)
Group’s Media Cost cost
up until the row’s date.
Can be used with: IO
dimensions, Dates
IO Recalculated Cost Currency SUM
The IO Recalculated
(no margin)
Cost without the
addition of the margin.
Depends on the cost
type that was defined in
the IO Cost Type (see
above) and is calculated
for the relevant IO
629

=== PAGE 634 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
Measurement Name Type Description
Aggregation
Function
items:
•
CPM: IO Rate *
Impressions / 1000
•
CPC: IO Rate * Clicks
•
CPA: IO Rate *
Conversions (from
the conversion tags
defined in the IO)
•
CPCV: IO Rate * Video
Fully Played
•
CPE: IO Rate * Social
Total Engagements
•
VCPM: IO Rate *
Viewed IAB
Impressions / 1000
•
CPV: IO Rate * Video
Views
•
dCPM: Media Cost / (
1- IO Margin Rate )
•
dCPC: Media Cost / (
1 - IO Margin Rate )
•
FLAT: will show no
value
If a value exists in the
IO Margin field, this
Margin will be added to
the above calculated
cost.
Can be used with: IO
dimensions, IO items
(Media Buy, Site,
Campaign), Dates
IO Recalculated Cost Currency SUM
The IO Recalculated
Cost (No Margin)
including the margin:
630

=== PAGE 635 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
Measurement Name Type Description
Aggregation
Function
IO Recalculated Cost
(No Margin) / (1 -
Margin)
IO Recalculated Cost Currency LIFETIME
The sum of the IO
(Accumulative)
Recalculated cost from
the IO’s start date, up
until the current row’s
date or the IO’s end
date.
Can be used with: IO
dimensions, Dates
IO Group Recalculated Currency LIFETIME
The sum of the IO
Cost (Accumulative)
Group Recalculated cost
up until the row’s date
Can be used with: IO
dimensions, Dates
IO Group Recalculated Currency
The total of the IO
Cost (Total)
Group Recalculated
Cost (Accumulative).
Used for calculations.
IO Remaining Budget Currency
The IO's remaining
budget for a given point
in time.
The formula behind this
measurement is:
IO Capped Cost -
Actualized Cost
(Accumulative)
Can be used with: IO
dimensions, Dates
631

=== PAGE 636 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
Measurement Name Type Description
Aggregation
Function
IO Share Of Total
Recalculated Cost of the
Table Item (each row) /
IO Recalculated Cost
(Total)
For FLAT rate:
Impressions for the
Delivery Unit/ Total
Impression of the IO
IO Group Share Of Total Recalculated Cost of the
item/IO Group
Recalculated Cost
(Total)
Media Transparency Center FAQ
Read our FAQ to learn about the most common Media Transparency Center questions and answers.
•
What's the difference between Actualized Cost and IO Actualized Cost (By Day)? What's the use case
for using each one?
•
How can I view the cost of entities on a level lower than IO in case of a FLAT rate type IO?
•
How do I create an IO with a Cost Type / Target Type that doesn’t exist in the platform?
•
When slicing Delivery Data on IO Dimensions it seems the Delivery Data values are higher than what
would be expected. Why is this happening?
•
When slicing delivery data on IO Dimensions I see data under an IO named 'Other'. What caused this
situation and why is there Delivery Data connected to this IO?
•
What is the calculation for Recalculated Cost in the Datorama platform? Based on the margin rate I'm
charging, I'm expecting to see different results.
•
How do I connect delivery data to an IO?
•
What is the Actual Value column in the Margin Adjustment Tool and how is it being calculated?
What's the difference between Actualized Cost and IO Actualized Cost (By
Day)? What's the use case for using each one?
The Actualized Cost Measurement is used to display actualized cost for entities on levels lower than an
IO, for example, Media Buy. Its calculation is based on maintaining the ratio between the entity's
recalculated cost to the recalculated cost of the entire IO. The calculation is as follows:
632

=== PAGE 637 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
The Actualized Cost by day Measurement presents the Recalculated cost until the point when the IO
reached its budget, and from that point and on it will show 0 cost.
The choice between the two actualized Measurements depends on the type of Entity you’re using in your
view and the information you’re trying to visualize:
•
For Date Entities (Day, Week, and so on) you can use either one of the Measurements, depending on
what you want to see. Remember that currently IO Actualized Cost (By day) must be presented with a
Date Dimension.
•
For any other Entity (Media Buy, Site, and so on) use Actualized Cost.
How can I view the cost of entities on a level lower than IO in case of a FLAT
rate type IO?
Since FLAT Rate Type IOs don't base their cost on Delivery Data, the cost for each entity is approximated
by the ratio between the number of the relevant Entity's Impressions and the total number of
Impressions delivered during the IO's date range.
The calculation is as following:
Note that 'IO Recalculated Cost' doesn't hold any value in case of a 'FLAT' Rate Type IO. If you want to
aggregate the cost of a 'FLAT' Rate Type IO with other IOs, use 'Actualized Cost'.
How do I create an IO with a Cost Type / Target Type that doesn’t exist in the
platform?
First, set a Custom Cost Type from the Media Transparency Center tab under the Workspace's settings.
Choose the relevant Measurement from the drop-down list.
The calculation is Measurement*Rate. Select the display name for this Custom Cost Type / Target Type
and click Save.
Custom Cost Types can only be based on Native Measurements (that is, Measurements that are mapped
via a Data Stream). In case you want your Cost Type to be based on a Calculated Measurement, you need
to create it during the mapping process with the TotalConnect formulas.
The new Custom Cost Type is available in the drop-down list in the IO Management tab along with
platform Cost Types. In case you are using TotalConnect to create your IOs, you will need to use the
function COSTTYPE () or TARGETTYPE() in the relevant fields in order to map your IO correctly. These
functions perform a lookup to the available Cost Type / Target Type in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
For example, if my data is as following:
633

=== PAGE 638 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
IO Key
IO Name Cost Type IO Rate
Generic Key no. 1 Generic IO no. 1 CPCV 1.5 100
The formula to use to map the 'Cost Type' dimension is: COSTTYPE(csv['Cost Type'])
It isn’t possible to verify a formula that contains the COSTTYPE function by clicking 'Validate Formula' in
the mapping screen. Test the logic of your formula before adding the COSTTYPE function and then
testing the results of the full formula in a Pivot Table.
When slicing Delivery Data on IO Dimensions it seems the Delivery Data
values are higher than what would be expected. Why is this happening?
This can happen if a Media Buy is connected to more than one IO at a given point in time. This isn’t an
expected behavior, but if this does occur, the Delivery Data of the Media Buy will be used to calculate the
cost for any IO that it's connected to.
When slicing delivery data on IO Dimensions I see data under an IO named
'Other'. What caused this situation and why is there Delivery Data connected
to this IO?
The IO named 'Other' is an entity's instance created just for the sake of the view, it represents the
Delivery Data that isn't connected to any IO at the requested date range.
What is the calculation for Recalculated Cost in the Datorama platform?
Based on the margin rate I'm charging, I'm expecting to see different results.
First, you need to know the differences between Markup and Margin. These two terms are commonly
being misused and are the key to understanding the calculation that Marketing Cloud Intelligence uses
in the 'Media Transparency Center'.
Margin
The ratio between the additional costs added on top of the basic Media Cost and the
Recalculated Cost, the final amount the client pays (considering the capped cost, if there’s one)
Markup
The ratio between the additional costs added on top of the basic Media Cost, and the basic
Media Cost.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence uses Margin to calculate the additional costs added over the Media Cost. If
you want to calculate according to Markup, please contact our support team with the relevant details
(Workspace ID).
634

=== PAGE 639 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
The calculation for Recalculated Cost in the Intelligence platform is as follows:
For example, if your data is:
IO Name Media Cost IO Margin Rate
Generic IO no. 1 100 $ 0.2
The 'Recalculated Cost' will be calculated as follows:
How do I connect delivery data to an IO?
There are two common ways to connect Delivery Data to an IO, both of which are based on creating a
connection between the 'IO Key' and the relevant Entity in the Delivery Data. You can either connect the
keys with Media Transparency Center or with TotalConnect.
What is the Actual Value column in the Margin Adjustment Tool and how is
it being calculated?
The Actual Value is calculated as follows:
The Delivery Measurement is inherited from the Target Cost Type set for the IO. For example, if the Target
Cost Type is CPA, the Delivery Measurement would be Conversions. The actual value is colored according
to the Target Value set in the IO settings.
For example, if you had a Target Value of 1 and your Cost Type is CPC, your Recalculated cost is $10 and
you have 5 clicks, your actual value will be 2 more than your target value. Therefore it is colored red.
Grouping Delivery Data in the Media Transparency Center
Learn about grouping delivery data in the Media Transparency Center.
When looking at Buy Data in the IO or Media buy level, the delivery data can sometimes be grouped
under the 'Other' Entity.
This happens when the delivery data is relevant for a date range no IO is linked to.
635

=== PAGE 640 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
To further inspect the matter and make sure this is indeed an IO date range matter, create a report, pivot
table, or table widget with the following fields: Day, Media Buy Name/Key, IO key, IO start date, IO end
date, and Impressions.
You get the following:
In this example, you can see that for the same media buy key, the data in some of the days is attributed
to a real IO, and starting September 11, the data is attributed to 'Other'. Notice that the IO end date is
September 10, therefore, this data is out of the IO's date range.
Actualized and Recalculated Costs in the Media Transparency
Center
Learn about actualized and recalculated costs in the Media Transparency Center.
In working with Media Transparency Center, you’ll have noticed that quite a few new Cost Measurements
have been added to your Workspace, most are variants of two main Cost Type Measurements:
IO Recalculated Cost
IO Recalculated Cost is a recalculation of the cost, based on the IO Cost Type, IO Rate, and
actual units delivered, irrespective of any Budget limits.
Actualized Cost
Actualized Cost is the same recalculation of the IO Recalculated Cost, but with adherence to the
Budget (IO Capped Cost) as its limit, ‘capping out’ as soon as that budget has been fulfilled.
Definitions
IO Cost Type
Cost Type is usually an abbreviation of letters symbolizing both the calculation method used to
calculate the cost of digital marketing activity in question. Common Cost Type examples are CPC
(Cost per Click) and CPM (Cost per 1,000 Impressions).
IO Rate
The actual amount that each delivered unit will be charged in the cost recalculation. For
example, the IO Rate used for a CPC Cost Type, of a certain IO is $0.2 for each Click.
IO Margin Rate
An additional charge, defined as percentage, added on top of the cost recalculation. Typically
used by parties such as agencies, to factor in an additional commission charge.
636

=== PAGE 641 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
Accumulative Costs
For example, IO Recalculated Cost (Accumulative), are cost recalculations that are date-based,
whose value on any particular day, is the total of all the days which preceded it. Furthermore,
Accumulative costs are always at the entire IO level, for all associated delivery items combined —
that is, even if viewed for a single delivery item, the value shown will be that of all delivery items
associated with the IO. Accumulative costs always start their accumulation from the IO Start
Date, even if that date falls outside the filtered date range of any particular view.
IO Group Costs
For example, IO Group Actualized Cost, are cost recalculations processed at the group level, for
multiple IOs defined as belonging to the same group.
IO Capped Cost
The value at which the IO’s Recalculated Cost caps — that is, the IO’s Budget. This Capping is
observed by Actualized Cost calculations.
Prorated Actualized Cost Value
While the IO Capped Cost is defined at the entire IO level, some users may wish to view the
Actualized Cost at the level of the IO’s Delivery Items, for example Media Buys, Campaigns and
so on. Since Actualized Cost is dependent upon the IO Capped Cost, which itself is defined for
the IO as a whole and not for each Delivery Item, there’s no way to derive the Actualized Cost for
each Delivery Item. Therefore when the IO Capped Cost is exceeded, the only way to assign an
Actualized Cost value to each Delivery item, is to prorate the entire IO Capped Cost by each of its
associated Delivery Item’s weight. This value is hence an estimation.
Re-Calculated Cost Measurements
Measurement Name Description
IO Recalculated Cost This measurement is a recalculation of the Cost
based on the Measurement value and Cost Type.
The recalculation varies depending on the IO’s
Cost Type, as follows:
CPM: IO Rate * Impressions / 1000
CPC: IO Rate * Clicks
CPA: IO Rate * Conversions(from the conversion
tags defined in the IO)
CPCV: IO Rate * Video Fully Played
637

=== PAGE 642 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
Measurement Name Description
CPE: IO Rate * Social Total Engagements
VCPM: IO Rate * Viewed IAB Impressions / 1000
CPV: IO Rate * Video Views
dCPM: Media Cost / ( 1- IO Margin Rate )
dCPC: Media Cost / ( 1 - IO Margin Rate )
FLAT: will show no value
If the ‘IO Margin Rate’ field contains a value, that
value will be added to the IO Recalculated Cost as
follows: IO Recalculated Cost / (1 - Margin)
Can be used with: IO dimensions, IO items (Media
Buy, Site, Campaign), Dates
IO Recalculated Cost (Accumulative)
For any particular date, this Measurement shows
the total ‘IO Recalculated Cost’ for all the days
which preceded it, from the IO Start Date (even if
the IO Start Date falls outside the filtered date
range of any particular view).
Can be used with: IO dimensions, Dates
IO Group Recalculated Cost (Accumulative)
For any particular date, this Measurement shows
the total ‘IO Recalculated Cost’ for all the IOs that
belong to the same Group, for all the days which
preceded it, from the IO Start Date.
Can be used with: IO Dimensions, Dates
Actualized Cost Measurements
Measurement Name Description
IO Actualized Cost (Accumulative) For any particular date, this Measurement shows
the sum of all the Actualized Cost values for all the
days which preceded it, from the IO Start Date.
IO Actualized Cost (Total) The total sum of the Actualized Cost with a
maximum value of the IO Capped Cost.
638

=== PAGE 643 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Media Transparency Center
Measurement Name Description
Actualized Cost
The total cost actualized (or used) out of the ‘IO
Capped Cost’. This Measurement is mostly
intended for use at a Delivery Item level. This
Measurement shows an assumed (or prorated)
value.
Calculation:
IO Share of Total X IO Actualized Cost (Total)
Can be used with: IO Dimensions, Dates, IO items
(Media Buy, Site, Campaign)
IO Actualized Cost By Day
On each day, shows the IO Recalculated Cost
while keeping track of its accumulated total. The
moment the accumulated total reaches or
surpasses the IO Capped Cost, the IO Actualized
Cost by Day will show a zero value on any
consecutive day from that point forth.
IO Actualized Cost By Day is calculated using the
following formula:
Recalculated Cost - IO Recalculated Cost
(Accumulative) + Actualized Cost (Accumulative)
If a negative value is returned, the IO Actualized
Cost By Day value shows as ‘0’.
Can be used with: IO Dimensions, Dates, IO items
(Media Buy, Site, Campaign)
IO Group Actualized Cost
The total cost actualized (or used) out of the total
‘IO Capped Cost’ of all the IOs that belong to the
same group. This Measurement is intended for
use at a Delivery Item level and its value is
assumed (or prorated).
Calculation:
IO Group Share of Total * IO Group Actualized
Cost (Accumulative)
Can be used with: IO Dimensions, Delivery
639

=== PAGE 644 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Measurement Name Description
Entities, Dates
IO Group Actualized Cost (Accumulative)
For any particular date, this Measurement shows
the sum of all the IO Group Actualized Cost values
for all the days which preceded it, from the IO
Start Date.
Can be used with: IO Dimensions, Dates
Workspace Settings in the Media Transparency Center
Learn about the workspace settings in the Media Transparency Center.
To access the Media Transparency Center Settings:
11.. Open Marketing Cloud Intelligence and access your account settings by clicking the Account
dropdown menu.
22.. Select the account for which you want to adjust the MTC settings.
33.. Click Workspaces and then select the specific Workspace.
44.. In the left pane, under the workspace settings menu click Cost Center.
As with other Workspace settings, MTC settings can also be pushed or imported across Workspaces in
the same account.
55.. In the MTC settings you can set Custom Cost Types and Custom Target Types.
If you create Custom Cost Types, their display names must be different than the System Cost Type
names. The system always uses the system calculations (the predefined measurements per cost type)
rather than the selected measurements in the Custom Cost Type fields.
66.. In the Measurement column select the Measurement you want to calculate your cost according to. For
example, if you chose Video Completes, the Cost/Target type should be Cost Per Video Completes.
77.. Under Margin Adjustment, you can choose what happens when you edit yesterday's margin by
selecting:
Never change IO’s default margin
Always change IO’s default margin
Ask me when that happens
Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
To enhance your marketing intelligence solutions, check out the apps and tools offered on the Marketing
Cloud Intelligence Marketplace. Anyone can access the Marketplace, but depending on your user role,
640

=== PAGE 645 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
your access might be limited.
You can download apps to get marketing intelligence views within seconds. When you install an app,
Marketing Cloud Intelligence components, such as data streams, calculations, or dashboards, are added
to your workspace. These out-of-the-box solutions have no learning curve or code requirements.
Get Started with the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace
The Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace is a repository of tools and apps for anyone creating a
marketing intelligence solution. Easily download and customize apps, connectors, and more from the
Marketplace. While anyone can access the Marketplace, each user role has different permissions.
Marketplace Apps
The Marketplace offers easy down-loadable apps that you can customize to your own needs. No
coding knowledge is required. After an app is installed, underlying entities are installed in your
workspace. You also get a run mode of the app with configured dashboards allowing you full control of
your views. It’s important to note that apps are installed for an entire workspace and only admins can
install them. If you’re a power user or viewer, you can add the app to your wishlist and your admin
installs the app for you.
Marketplace Connectors
The Marketplace offers a Connectors library with a number of customized connectors. With
connectors, connect to an external environment, instead of creating a custom connector. You can find
connectors that were developed by partners, third-party vendors, and Intelligence.
Marketplace Add-On Features
The Add-On Features tab is a centralized location for all of Marketing Cloud Intelligence add-ons. Add-
on features extend the capabilities of the platform, and can be enabled for free, or at an extra cost.
Marketplace Widgets
Install and use Marketplace widgets in your workspace to get the full functionality of pre-defined
custom widgets. Custom widgets include ready-to-use page visualization, navigation, and API
solutions. After installing a custom widget, you can edit it and change your dashboard page’s design
and behavior.
The Marketing Cloud Intelligence Developer Portal
The Developer Portal is an easy-to-use and centralized location for developers who want to develop
tools, use cases, and examples. The Developer Portal offers these tools: Query API, Platform API,
Custom Data Connectors, and Apps.
Get Started with the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace
The Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace is a repository of tools and apps for anyone creating a
marketing intelligence solution. Easily download and customize apps, connectors, and more from the
Marketplace. While anyone can access the Marketplace, each user role has different permissions.
This list shows which permissions you have according to your user role:
641

=== PAGE 646 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Marketplace Action Admin Power User Viewer
View Marketplace ✓ ✓ ✓
Apps/Connectors
Install Apps/Connectors ✓
Add Apps/Connectors ✓ ✓
to Wishlist
Share Apps/Connectors ✓
Use Apps ✓
✓ ✓
When an app has been When an app has been
shared with them shared with them
View Add-On Features ✓ ✓ ✓
(watch videos, click I’m
interested)
Manage Apps in
✓ ✓
Collections
Can manage apps in Can manage apps in
collections for all collections for any apps
installed apps that were shared with
them
Get to Know the Marketplace Interface
The Marketplace provides a large repository of apps and tools to help you enhance your marketing
intelligence solutions. All the apps and tools can be accessed via the Marketplace main page.
View Installed Solutions
Access and manage all of your installed solutions from the Installed Solutions page.
Get to Know the Marketplace Interface
The Marketplace provides a large repository of apps and tools to help you enhance your marketing
intelligence solutions. All the apps and tools can be accessed via the Marketplace main page.
Access the Marketplace main page from the Marketplace tab in Marketing Cloud Intelligence:
On the home page you can:
•
Search for a solution, either by keyword or name. You can also filter by category, for example paid
solutions.
642

=== PAGE 647 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
View available apps, connectors, widgets, and add-ons you can download directly to your workspace.
•
Sort solutions by developer name, date released, or date updated.
•
Organize solutions by either ascending or descending order.
•
View and manage installed solutions.
View Installed Solutions
Access and manage all of your installed solutions from the Installed Solutions page.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To view installed solutions: Admin, Power Users, or Viewers
11.. Access the Marketplace main page from the Marketplace tab in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
22.. Click Go to Installed Solutions.
33.. View the Marketplace Installed Solutions page.
On the Installed Solutions page you can:
•
Search for a solution by entering a keyword or name.
•
View all of your installed apps.
•
View all of your installed connectors (admin users only).
•
View all of your installed custom widgets.
•
Sort solutions by date installed or status.
•
Organize solutions by either ascending or descending order.
•
Go back to the Marketplace to search and install marketing intelligence solutions.
Marketplace Apps
The Marketplace offers easy down-loadable apps that you can customize to your own needs. No coding
knowledge is required. After an app is installed, underlying entities are installed in your workspace. You
also get a run mode of the app with configured dashboards allowing you full control of your views. It’s
important to note that apps are installed for an entire workspace and only admins can install them. If
you’re a power user or viewer, you can add the app to your wishlist and your admin installs the app for
you.
Available Marketplace Apps
Here you can find information about all the available apps in the Marketplace. Click an app to view
more details about what it does, how to install it and how to use it after it’s installed in your
workspace.
Manage an Installed App
The Installed Solutions page displays all of the apps you have installed to your workspace. From here
643

=== PAGE 648 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
you can access and manage all of your installed apps, including sharing, uninstalling, and
troubleshooting.
Underlying Entities in Marketplace Apps
Underlying entities are created behind the scenes after Marketplace apps install. They enable the app
to function properly. Each app has its own set or combination of underlying entities depending on the
app’s purpose and functionality.
Understanding App Installations
What happens when Marketplace apps are installed? What determines whether an app installs
successfully or fails? Is there anything I can do to make sure the app installs successfully? If an app fails
during an installation, is there a way to see why and even fix it? These are only some questions you’re
probably asking yourself when installing Marketplace apps. This section explains how to troubleshoot
and fix errors that occur when installing apps.
Available Marketplace Apps
Here you can find information about all the available apps in the Marketplace. Click an app to view more
details about what it does, how to install it and how to use it after it’s installed in your workspace.
Audience Insights for Advertising Studio App
Optimize your audience strategy with a single, cross-channel view to analyze the effectiveness of your
Facebook and Twitter audiences. The Audience Insights for Advertising Studio app connects Marketing
Cloud Advertising to your paid media channels.
Customer Insights for Marketing Cloud Customer Data Platform App
Unify all your data from anywhere for a complete view of your customers. With the Customer Insights
for Marketing Cloud Customer Data Platform app, you can pull calculated insights, ingest predefined
insights on demographics, engagement, and conversion, and deploy out-of-the-box dashboards in
Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
Cross-Channel Marketing Insights
The Cross-Channel Marketing Insights App (CCMI) connects your cross channel marketing data
including Facebook Ads, Instagram Ads, LinkedIn Ads, Pinterest Ads, Twitter Ads, and Google Ads. The
app allows you to optimize your paid campaigns across every major channel. This app is a great
starting point for users who are still going through an implementation process, as it enables you to
quickly connect your data sources with just one click. The app is also useful for customers who are
looking for a quick and clear overview of their campaign performance.
Data Dictionary App
The Data Dictionary app provides access to a list of all available fields in your workspace, including
calculated fields, such as calculated dimensions and measurements. Use this app to understand how
fields are built and how they relate to your data.
Data Readiness App
The Data Readiness app monitors the quality of your data harmonization efforts across all designated
dimensions. The app focuses on calculated, harmonized, and mapped dimensions. Use the Data
Readiness app to view the naming convention compliance of your dimensions and identify
noncompliant data sources.
644

=== PAGE 649 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Ecommerce Marketing Insights App
The Ecommerce Marketing Insights app shows you how your marketing efforts are driving ecommerce
revenue. You can analyze your ecommerce performance, at any granularity and from any platform.
eCommerce Optimizer App
The eCommerce Optimizer app provides a complete interactive picture of your Return On Ad Spend
(ROAS) by connecting ecommerce spend and revenue. This app provides a detailed visual breakdown
of where your spend is performing best and how individual platform and channel performance
updates. Discover which first-party marketing touchpoints led to conversions or brought in the highest
revenue according to attribution models.
Email to Web Conversion GA4 App
Connect your web analytics and email data into one dashboard using the Email to Web Conversion
GA4 app. The app simplifies the process of data harmonization between emails and traffic and
addresses the email use case for multiple email vendors.
Implementation Templates App
Use the Implementation Templates app to download QA templates for testing and validating data
sources. When you download a template, a new page is added to your collection so that you can easily
access the template.
Lead Generation App
The Lead Generation app tracks the relationship between Lead Generations and Opportunities, and it
harmonizes and connects your lead generation data.
Marketing Assistant App
Interact with Marketing Cloud Intelligence using voice or text to ask simple questions about marketing
data. The Marketing Assistant app provides detailed answers in both voice and visuals.
Marketing Insights for Sales Cloud App
The Marketing Insights for Sales Cloud app helps marketers and sales understand how their marketing
efforts and spend convert into revenue. The app provides various views to analyze data based on
objectives. For example, find the weak links in a sales funnel or the business justifications to allocate a
certain percentage of your marketing budget to a campaign.
Media Naming Builder App
Create consistent campaign, placement, and creative names that match your naming conventions
using the Media Naming Builder app. Instead of manually generating names with other third-party
tools, add hundreds of names instantly based on your naming convention patterns and avoid data
discrepancies.
Media Pacing App
The Media Pacing app is an instant pacing package for your Media Transparency Center. It provides
you with visualization into your Planned Spend and Booked Units against your Actual Spend and
Delivered Units.
Media Planning Center App
The Media Planning Center enables advertisers to create plans for strategic allocation of advertising
budget. It facilitates budget allocation at a high level, for entities such as channels, platforms, or
strategy.
Multi-Touch Attribution App
Discover which first-party marketing touchpoints led to conversions or brought in the highest revenue
645

=== PAGE 650 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
according to attribution models.
Salesforce Marketing Cloud Email App
The Salesforce Marketing Cloud Email app pulls data from both Marketing Cloud Email Studio and
Journey Builder. The app provides enhanced analytics, identifies and classifies top KPIs, and tracks the
progress of data points.
Search Keyword Insights App
Connect your organic and paid search data to view overall search performance and keyword insights.
Automatically identify what is and isn’t covered by your paid campaigns and use that information in
future campaigns to drive growth.
Social Intelligence App
See how your brand compares to your competitors’ brands by looking at follower growth, post
patterns, overall messaging, and preconfigured AI insights.
Workspace Health Monitoring App
The Workspace Health Monitoring app lets you monitor and handle any processing issues in your
Marketing Cloud Intelligence workspace. This app provides a simple, centralized view of your
automatic processes running in Marketing Cloud Intelligence. View failed reports, actions, data
streams, and workflows, and fix entities by logging a ticket or notifying a colleague about outstanding
issues.
Audience Insights for Advertising Studio App
Optimize your audience strategy with a single, cross-channel view to analyze the effectiveness of your
Facebook and Twitter audiences. The Audience Insights for Advertising Studio app connects Marketing
Cloud Advertising to your paid media channels.
Note Advertising Studio is now Marketing Cloud Advertising.
Here’s a video about the Audience Insights for Advertising Studio (Marketing Cloud Advertising) app:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/nkG867cE8H8aSQBAE2W9Aw
Set Up the Audience Insights for Advertising Studio App
The Audience Insights for Advertising Studio app provides a single, cross-channel view of your
Facebook and Twitter audiences. Setting up the app involves classifying your campaign strategies.
Run the Intelligence App for Marketing Cloud Advertising
After installing the Intelligence App for Marketing Cloud Advertising, the Audience Insights for
Marketing Cloud Advertising dashboard appears on the Visualize tab. Use the dashboard to see how
your campaigns using first-party audiences are performing.
Set Up the Audience Insights for Advertising Studio App
The Audience Insights for Advertising Studio app provides a single, cross-channel view of your Facebook
and Twitter audiences. Setting up the app involves classifying your campaign strategies.
646

=== PAGE 651 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To install Marketplace apps Admin
Note Advertising Studio is now Marketing Cloud Advertising.
To install the Audience Insights for Advertising Studio app, you need:
•
Marketing Cloud Advertising username and password with Admin permissions.
•
Facebook Ads or Twitter Ads username and password
•
Google Ads username and password (The Google Ads API doesn’t pull excluded audience data.)
11.. Install the Audience Insights for Advertising Studio app.
aa.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
bb.. Select the app and click Get it Now.
22.. Connect your Marketing Cloud Advertising data.
aa.. If your Marketing Cloud Advertising user is already authenticated, select the username from the
dropdown.
bb.. If you must authenticate, click Add New Authentication. After you connect, all business units that
exist for your user appear in the dropdown.
cc.. Select the business unit you want to connect to.
dd.. Click Next.
33.. Connect your advertising platform data. By default, all Facebook Ads, Twitter Ads, and Google Ads
data streams found in your workspace are selected.
aa.. To remove a data stream, deselect its checkbox.
bb.. To add a data stream, click Add New.
cc.. Click Next.
44.. Classify your campaign strategies. By default, Marketing Cloud Intelligence creates strategies and
classifies some of your campaigns accordingly.
aa.. To change the classifications, add or remove strategies.
bb.. Add classification rules to the strategies to accommodate your naming conventions.
cc.. If you prefer to classify your campaigns offline according to your own naming conventions, upload a
classification file by clicking Upload File.
dd.. Click Next.
55.. Review the data model mapping. Marketing Cloud Intelligence automatically maps the external
audience data from your advertising platforms to the Marketing Cloud Intelligence data model.
aa.. To change the mapping, click Edit.
bb.. Select the data stream type from the dropdown.
66.. Complete the installation.
Installing the Audience Insights for Advertising Studio creates a number of underlying entities:
•
Data Streams - If you added data streams during the installation process, the app automatically
creates these fields and definitions:
- Marketing Cloud Advertising
- Facebook Ads Four data model fields and one custom field. All fields are automatically mapped.
647

=== PAGE 652 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Existing data stream definitions:
- Under Extended Properties, the Get Conversions toggle is turned on.
- Under Breakdown, Placement or Placement & Impressions Device is set.
New data streams definitions:
- Under Extended Properties - the Get Conversions toggle is turned on.
- Under Breakdown, Placement is set.
•
Twitter Ads
Four data model fields and one custom field. All fields are automatically mapped. For both existing
and new data streams definitions:
- Under Extended Properties - the Get Conversions and Get Tailored Audience Data toggles are
turned on.
•
Patterns -These patterns are created:
- Platform of Facebook and Twitter
- Adwords Site Name for Platform
- Platform According to Data Source Name
•
Harmonized dimensions - One harmonized dimension is created for all patterns.
•
Classification rules - These classification rules are created:
- Social Campaign Strategies
- Platform for 1st Party Audiences
- Included Classification Rule
- Excluded Classification Rule
- All Audiences Classifications
•
Calculated dimensions - The calculated dimension Audience from Ad Studio Flag is created.
•
Calculated measurements - These calculated measurements are created:
- Count Of Ad Studio Audiences in active Campaigns
- Campaigns per Ad Studio Audiences
- Count Of Ad Studio Audiences (All)
•
Report - A report is created that exports the relevant fields from Marketing Cloud Advertising. The
report is updated each time the data stream is updated and shows the status of the audiences in
Marketing Cloud Advertising.
Run the Intelligence App for Marketing Cloud Advertising
After installing the Intelligence App for Marketing Cloud Advertising, the Audience Insights for Marketing
Cloud Advertising dashboard appears on the Visualize tab. Use the dashboard to see how your
campaigns using first-party audiences are performing.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To view installed Marketplace apps Admin, Power User, or Viewer
You can filter the dashboard by data stream, platform, and date. The dashboard contains these sections:
•
Overall View for Campaigns Using First-Party Audiences - A snapshot of how all your campaigns are
performing in relation to impressions, conversions, and spend. This section contains these widgets:
648

=== PAGE 653 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
- Total Spend - The total amount of money spent in all campaigns using first-party audiences.
- Total Impressions - The total number of impressions for all campaigns using first-party audiences.
- Total Conversions - The total number of conversions for all campaigns using first-party audiences.
(This is according to the “Total Conversions” field in the Advertising Platforms data streams.)
- Total # of Audiences - The total number of audiences that exist in Marketing Cloud Advertising.
Marketing Cloud Intelligence counts audiences that are either active or have errors. (Audiences in
“draft” status don’t appear in the total calculation.)
- Total # of Audiences Active in Campaigns - The total number of audiences that are active in
campaigns displayed in the current timeframe. These audiences are either included or excluded
from these campaigns.
•
Audience Usage - An overview of which audiences were used the most and which were used the least
in your campaigns. This section contains these widgets:
- Top Used Audiences - The audiences that are most used in your campaigns, either as included or
excluded.
- Least Used Audiences -The audiences least used in your campaigns, either as included or excluded.
Audiences appear here if they were used at least one time.
•
Top Campaigns - Information about your top-performing campaigns. You can select the relevant
audience and then filter by a measurement to investigate the performance of the top-10 campaigns.
This section contains these widgets:
- Audiences Included in Campaigns - Filter by which audiences were included in the campaign to
see which campaign performed the best per the selected audience.
- Audiences Excluded in Campaigns - Filter by which audiences were excluded from the campaign.
(Google Ads doesn’t pull excluded audience data.)
- Top 10 Campaigns for Selected Audience - Filter the widget by audiences included or excluded in
the campaigns. You can organize the campaigns according to impressions, clicks, CPM, media cost,
conversion CPA, and conversion rate.
•
Which Strategy of Audience Performs Best - You can filter by strategy, and audiences used in the
different campaigns to see how they react to different strategies.
•
Detailed Display All - Campaign for Each Audience - Displays all your campaigns and audiences.
See Also
Calculated Insights
Customer Insights for Marketing Cloud Customer Data Platform App
Unify all your data from anywhere for a complete view of your customers. With the Customer Insights for
Marketing Cloud Customer Data Platform app, you can pull calculated insights, ingest predefined
insights on demographics, engagement, and conversion, and deploy out-of-the-box dashboards in
Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
This video gives an overview of Data 360.
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/v878ePWiKwWsLCThyN6FSa
Set Up the Customer Insights for Marketing Cloud Customer Data Platform App
The Customer Insights for Marketing Cloud Customer Data Platform app unifies your data and
649

=== PAGE 654 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
provides Data 360 insights. To set up the app, connect Data 360 data and select required insights.
Run the Customer Insights for Marketing Cloud Customer Data Platform App
Installing the Customer Insights for Marketing Cloud Customer Data Platform app creates a collection
and dashboards for each insight type that you selected during the installation. For example, if you
selected two insight types, engagement and conversion, a dashboard appears for each type. You can
also access the collection directly from Data 360.
Set Up the Customer Insights for Marketing Cloud Customer Data Platform App
The Customer Insights for Marketing Cloud Customer Data Platform app unifies your data and provides
Data 360 insights. To set up the app, connect Data 360 data and select required insights.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To install Marketplace apps Admin
To install Customer Insights for Data 360, you need:
•
A Data 360 username and password
11.. Install the Customer Insights for Marketing Cloud Customer Data Platform app.
aa.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
bb.. Select the app, and click Get it Now.
22.. Select your Data 360 account from the dropdown. If you don’t have an authenticated account, click
Authenticate another account and enter your Data 360 username and password.
Note If you encounter issues when authenticating, you could be logged in to another Salesforce
account. Log out of all Salesforce accounts, refresh the token, and then try again. If you’re still
encountering issues, contact your Marketing Cloud Intelligence representative.
33.. Click Next.
44.. In the Predefined Insights section, select the insights that you want to pull.
55.. To get more information about the insights, click a tile.
aa.. The left side shows the type of data that the insights include.
bb.. The right side shows which CIM (Cloud Information Model) objects that the insight assumes are
populated based on your mapping within Data 360. The objects that are populated appear in green.
The ones that aren’t populated are gray.
Note If your workspace doesn’t include the required data model objects, the insight is gray and
can’t be selected. Click the insight to see which objects aren’t populated correctly in Data 360.
To enable the predefined insight, make sure these objects are mapped in Data 360.
cc.. To select individual attributes to add to the dataset and filter the data on, select an attribute from
the Select Attributes dropdown.
66.. In the Calculated Insights section, select the calculated insights that you want to pull from Data 360.
Calculated insights are defined by the user in Data 360. They aren’t required to generate the
predefined insights, however you can ingest them into Marketing Cloud Intelligence to harmonize the
data with other datasets or to visualize them.
650

=== PAGE 655 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
77.. Complete the installation.
Installing the Customer Insights for Marketing Cloud Customer Data Platform app creates a number of
underlying entities:
•
Data Streams – A LiteConnect data stream is created for each calculated insight that you select during
the installation.
•
Collection – A collection is created for each instance of the app.
•
Dashboards – A dashboard is created for each insight type you selected.
Run the Customer Insights for Marketing Cloud Customer Data Platform App
Installing the Customer Insights for Marketing Cloud Customer Data Platform app creates a collection
and dashboards for each insight type that you selected during the installation. For example, if you
selected two insight types, engagement and conversion, a dashboard appears for each type. You can also
access the collection directly from Data 360.
Demographics Dashboard
The demographics predefined insights aggregate data from your Individual or Unified Individual data
model objects in Data 360. This dashboard creates widgets with different customer breakdowns, to
identify trends of your audiences. This dashboard contains these widgets:
•
Customers—Shows the total number of customers
•
Unified Customers —Shows the total number of unique customers.
•
Customers by Location—Shows a breakdown of customers by geographic location.
•
Customers by Gender—Shows a breakdown of customers by their gender.
•
Customers by Age—Shows a breakdown of customers by age.
•
Population over time—Shows trends of customers during the defined time period. Select up to two
dimensions to change the filter of the population over time widget.
•
Table—A detailed view of the customer data, including age group, country, day, gender and more.
Engagement Dashboard
The engagement predefined insights aggregate data from your different engagement data model objects
and unifies it into a single dashboard. You can track engagement over time and compare different
channels and campaigns.
This dashboard contains these widgets:
•
Highest Open Rate (Push) —Shows the highest open rate of push messages.
•
Highest Open Rate (Email)—Shows the highest open rate of email messages.
•
Total Engagements—Shows the total number of engagements.
•
Channel—Shows a breakdown of engagements by the different channels.
•
Campaign—Shows a breakdown of engagements by the different campaigns.
•
Engagement Over Time—Shows the engagement during the defined time period. Select a
651

=== PAGE 656 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
measurement to change the data that is shown in the Engagement Over Time widget.
•
Engagement Drilldown—Shows the total engagements drilled down into different categories.
•
Details—Shows a detailed view of engagements by channel, campaign name, day and more.
Conversion Dashboard
The conversion predefined insights aggregate data from your Sales Order data model objects to show
how your customers convert. This dashboard provides a view of purchases over time with product and
product category breakdowns. You can filter this dashboard by product category, product name, and
business unit.
This dashboard contains these widgets:
•
Avg. Spend Per Customer—Shows the average amount of money spent per customer.
•
Total Orders—Shows the total number of orders for all customers.
•
Avg Orders Per Customer—Shows the average number of orders per customer.
Click a dimension to change the data you see in these breakdown widgets:
•
Order—Shows the total number of orders per product name or category.
•
Revenue over time—Shows the total revenue per product name or category.
•
Details—Shows a detailed view of conversions by product name, product category, day and more.
Cross-Channel Marketing Insights
The Cross-Channel Marketing Insights App (CCMI) connects your cross channel marketing data including
Facebook Ads, Instagram Ads, LinkedIn Ads, Pinterest Ads, Twitter Ads, and Google Ads. The app allows
you to optimize your paid campaigns across every major channel. This app is a great starting point for
users who are still going through an implementation process, as it enables you to quickly connect your
data sources with just one click. The app is also useful for customers who are looking for a quick and
clear overview of their campaign performance.
Note The Cross-Channel Marketing Insights app now supports GA4 and can be selected alongside
UA360 profiles during the installation. In order to pull in GA4 data you must first uninstall and then
reinstall the app.
With the Cross-Channel Marketing Insights app you can:
•
Compare your campaigns and creatives cross-channel.
•
View and act on suggestions made by the Einstein Marketing Insights bots to optimize your marketing
efforts.
•
Learn about your top and worst performing campaigns and their characteristics.
•
Start and stop campaigns directly from the app.
Set Up the Cross-Channel Marketing Insights App
Use the Cross-Channel Marketing Insights app to compare campaign and creative performance across
652

=== PAGE 657 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
channels.
Run the Cross-Channel Marketing Insights App
Use the Cross-Channel Marketing Insights app to view campaigns across your marketing channels all
in one place. Get customized, data-driven insights. Switch between the different tabs to explore views
and insights of your cross channel marketing data.
Set Up the Cross-Channel Marketing Insights App
Use the Cross-Channel Marketing Insights app to compare campaign and creative performance across
channels.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To install Marketplace apps Admin
Note The Cross-Channel Marketing Insights app now supports GA4 and can be selected alongside
UA360 profiles during the installation. If you already installed the app and require GA4 profiles, you
must first uninstall and then reinstall the app.
To set up the app, connect your Google Analytics data by creating an authentication or by selecting an
existing data stream. Then, connect your ads data set coming from sources, such as Facebook Ads,
Instagram, or Salesforce Marketing Cloud. Combining Google Analytics visits and conversion data with
paid ad spend and performance data allows a single source of truth on what’s working across platforms,
campaigns and creatives.
To install the Cross-Channel Marketing Insights app, you need:
•
A Google Analytics username and password
•
Usernames and passwords for: Facebook Ads, Instagram, Google Ads, LinkedIn Ads, Twitter Ads,
Pinterest Ads, Salesforce Marketing Cloud, Mailchimp, or HubSpot
11.. Install the Cross-Channel Marketing Insights app:
aa.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
bb.. Select the app and click Get it Now.
22.. Connect your Google Analytics data:
aa.. If your Google Analytics user is already authenticated, select the username from the dropdown.
bb.. If you must authenticate, click Add new.
cc.. After you connect, all profiles that exist for your user appear in the dropdown. Select the profile that
you want to connect to.
dd.. Select the website where your data exists.
ee.. Click Next.
33.. Connect your marketing channels:
aa.. Select the platforms you want to visualize in the app, and then click Connect.
bb.. Click Next.
653

=== PAGE 658 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
cc.. Select your account from the dropdown and then select the profiles to connect to.
dd.. Repeat the same steps for each platform that you connect to.
44.. Click Install to complete the installation.
Run the Cross-Channel Marketing Insights App
Use the Cross-Channel Marketing Insights app to view campaigns across your marketing channels all in
one place. Get customized, data-driven insights. Switch between the different tabs to explore views and
insights of your cross channel marketing data.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To run Marketplace apps: Admins, Power Users, or Viewers
Note The Cross-Channel Marketing Insights app now supports GA4 and can be selected alongside
UA360 profiles during the installation. In order to pull in GA4 data you must first uninstall and then
reinstall the app. For more information, see Set Up the Cross-Channel Marketing Insights App
.
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and then select the Cross-Channel Marketing Insights app.
33.. To view cross-channel marketing data and get insights, click each tab.
44.. For details on the marketing performance of your connected platforms and to view the most
important metrics, click Research.
To expand your analysis, switch views.
Compare data metrics for each platform, such as
impressions and clicks. Click See Totals for all
Data View
platforms by metric within a selected timeframe
(1).
Compare platform performance for a selected
Graphic View
metric (2).
Identify trends by comparing marketing activity
Glance View
to marketing metrics and costs (3).
55.. To see top and worst performers based on cost compared to all cross-channel campaigns, click
Insights.
aa.. Select a metric (1).
bb.. Filter by top performers and worst performers (2).
654

=== PAGE 659 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
cc.. To view the details of a campaign, click a campaign (3).
66.. To see EMI insights, click EMI.
EMI suggests ways to improve your marketing efforts, such as pausing certain campaigns or
reallocating budget to other campaigns. To see more information about an insight, click Why.
Data Dictionary App
The Data Dictionary app provides access to a list of all available fields in your workspace, including
calculated fields, such as calculated dimensions and measurements. Use this app to understand how
fields are built and how they relate to your data.
If you’re an admin, create and update data field definitions, and then share the app with viewers and
power users so that they can analyze the data. This app doesn’t create, update, or install any underlying
entities. It also doesn’t automatically filter out any fields based on user restriction.
Here’s a video about the Data Dictionary app:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/j2mNMChnzkQDcbqVuxnkBZ
Set Up the Data Dictionary App
The Data Dictionary app provides a list of all the available fields in your workspace. Setting up the app
involves selecting the fields that you want to view, refining the selected fields, and then reviewing
them to make sure that you included the correct fields.
Run the Data Dictionary App
Use the Data Dictionary app to view a list of all the available fields in your workspace. After the app has
been created and shared with you, you can open it.
Set Up the Data Dictionary App
The Data Dictionary app provides a list of all the available fields in your workspace. Setting up the app
involves selecting the fields that you want to view, refining the selected fields, and then reviewing them
to make sure that you included the correct fields.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To install Marketplace apps: Admin
11.. Install the Data Dictionary app.
aa.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
bb.. Select the app, and click Get it Now.
22.. Select the types of fields that you want to include in the list. If you want, you can refine your selection.
aa.. To exclude invisible fields, toggle Hide Invisible Fields.
655

=== PAGE 660 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
bb.. To exclude fields that don’t have descriptions defined for them on the workspace level, toggle Hide
fields with no description.
cc.. To add an expression column to the table, toggle Include Expression for Calculated Fields. This
option only appears for fields that contain a calculation, such as calculated measurements.
dd.. To apply filters to include or exclude fields with specific names, descriptions, or expression values,
toggle on Filter. Use this action when including or excluding specific naming conventions. For
example, if all old and unused fields are marked as internal, filter by excluding any fields containing
the word internal.
33.. To preview the fields that were found in your workspace, click Review. All the fields appear in a table.
aa.. To search for a specific field, enter a term in the Search bar (1).
bb.. Show or hide field types by selecting the checkboxes of the fields that you want to show (2).
cc.. Show or hide columns by selecting the checkboxes of the column names that you want to show (3).
dd.. To return to the setup page, click the settings icon (4).
ee.. To view updated data, click the refresh icon (5).
Note The data updates based on the data in the workspace according to this logic:
••
If you removed fields from the workspace, they don’t display anymore.
••
If you added a description to a field in the workspace, the description appears in the app.
••
If you updated fields, all the attributes of the fields are updated, except for the descriptions.
••
If you updated the description in the workspace, the new description overrides the description
in the app.
••
If you removed the description or changed it, the description remains as it is in the app
44.. Click Finish
Run the Data Dictionary App
Use the Data Dictionary app to view a list of all the available fields in your workspace. After the app has
been created and shared with you, you can open it.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To run Marketplace apps: Admin, Power User, or Viewer
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and then select the Data Dictionary app.
33.. To search for a field, enter a term in the Search bar. For example, only display media cost fields:
44.. To hide or show specific field types, select or clear the checkboxes of the field types that you want to
display.
656

=== PAGE 661 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Data Readiness App
The Data Readiness app monitors the quality of your data harmonization efforts across all designated
dimensions. The app focuses on calculated, harmonized, and mapped dimensions. Use the Data
Readiness app to view the naming convention compliance of your dimensions and identify
noncompliant data sources.
This app complements Fix & Maintain because it captures data governance for dimensions outside of the
Harmonization Center. For more information, see Validate and Maintain your Harmonized Data.
Set Up the Data Readiness App
The Data Readiness app provides an overall view of your harmonized data and helps you ensure that
your data is classified based on the naming convention that you defined in your workspace.
Run the Data Readiness App
Run the Data Readiness app to monitor the quality of your data harmonization efforts. Review and
analyze the success rates for each harmonization dimension, and filter the data by data sources and
data streams. After the app installs, two new app pages are created for you and appear in your
dashboards.
Set Up the Data Readiness App
The Data Readiness app provides an overall view of your harmonized data and helps you ensure that
your data is classified based on the naming convention that you defined in your workspace.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To install Marketplace apps: Admin
11.. Install the Data Readiness app.
aa.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
bb.. Select the app, and click Get it Now.
22.. Select the dimensions to review.
33.. In the Validation Settings area, select the validation criteria for each dimension that you selected.
44.. To define your own rules, select Define Validation logic and then create a validation rule.
55.. If you select a harmonized dimension, calculated dimension, mapped field, or classification field, you
can upload a validation file in CSV format. The validation file can contain only one column with all the
valid values.
66.. Click Next.
77.. In the Measurements Selection area, select a measurement from each data stream type that relates
to the dimensions that you selected.
88.. If not all data sources are relevant for analysis, in the Data Sources/Streams Selection area, add filters
based on the data stream or data source that you want to analyze.
99.. In the Define Readiness Goal area, define the range for the success criteria by dragging the arrow to
657

=== PAGE 662 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
the percentage that you require.
The app dashboard is color-coded according to the goals that you define here.
1100.. Click Install.
Installing the Data Readiness app creates these entities:
•
Calculated dimensions
•
Calculated measurements
•
Reports
•
Data streams
Run the Data Readiness App
Run the Data Readiness app to monitor the quality of your data harmonization efforts. Review and
analyze the success rates for each harmonization dimension, and filter the data by data sources and data
streams. After the app installs, two new app pages are created for you and appear in your dashboards.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To run Marketplace apps: Admin, Power User, or Viewer
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and select the Data Readiness app.
33.. To view your overall score by the selected measurement, select the Harmonization Field page. The
main KPI used on this page is Score by Measurement.
Use this example to better understand the calculation.
Which harmonization fields show the best score? A bar graph shows all the dimensions that were
selected during installation and which fields had the best score.
The table provides an overview of your
harmonized fields and their scores based on the
Score Overview
measurement for each data stream, data source,
and harmonization field.
The line chart displays the score over the past
Score Trend
two months.
44.. For an overview of the patterns found, select the Patterns page. If you didn’t select harmonized
dimensions during installation, this page doesn’t contain any data. The main KPIs used on this page
are Structure Score by Measurement and Structure Score by Dimension.
Here’s an example to better understand the difference between these two calculations.
658

=== PAGE 663 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The table displays all the patterns based on the
Patterns Overview
harmonized dimensions.
The graph shows how much source data was
Extraction Score
valid.
Which Data Stream/Source Has the Best Readiness Score? The bar graph displays which data stream
or data source scored the highest based on an average score of the source dimensions and
measurements.
Ecommerce Marketing Insights App
The Ecommerce Marketing Insights app shows you how your marketing efforts are driving ecommerce
revenue. You can analyze your ecommerce performance, at any granularity and from any platform.
Installing the Ecommerce Marketing Insights app, creates these underlying entities.
•
Data streams
•
Calculated dimensions
•
Calculated measurements
•
Filtered measurements
•
Goals
•
Collections and pages
•
Classification rules
Set Up the Ecommerce Marketing Insights App
Connect your ecommerce, marketing, and web analytics platforms with the Ecommerce Marketing
Insights app. You can connect to data streams in your workspace or add new ones. You can use the
existing API connectors or ingest your data as a TotalConnect data stream.
Run the Ecommerce Marketing Insights App
See which ecommerce platforms are generating the most revenue, and discover trends so that you can
adjust as needed.
Modify Ecommerce Marketing Insights Settings
You can add or remove data streams and change how your data is mapped.
Set Up the Ecommerce Marketing Insights App
Connect your ecommerce, marketing, and web analytics platforms with the Ecommerce Marketing
Insights app. You can connect to data streams in your workspace or add new ones. You can use the
existing API connectors or ingest your data as a TotalConnect data stream.
659

=== PAGE 664 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To install Marketplace apps: Admin
Ecommerce Marketing Insights supports:
•
Amazon Vendor, Amazon Seller Central, Amazon Vendor Brand Analytics, Salesforce B2C, and
Salesforce Order Management ecommerce platforms
•
All marketing ads platforms
•
Google Analytics for web analytics
Before you begin
You must have credentials to at least one ecommerce platform, and one marketing platform.
11.. Install the Ecommerce Marketing Insights app.
aa.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
bb.. Select the app, and click Get it Now.
cc.. Click Start.
22.. Choose which ecommerce platforms you want the app to connect to.
aa.. Deselect the data streams that you don’t want to connect to.
bb.. If you want to create a data stream, click Add New.
All available platforms appear. The new data stream is also added to your workspace and affects
your workspace total row usage.
cc.. Select a platform.
dd.. Enter your login details. For example, if you select Amazon Seller Central, select the Amazon user
and profile.
660

=== PAGE 665 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
ee.. Click Create.
33.. Connect your marketing platforms.
aa.. Deselect the data streams that you don’t want the app to connect to.
bb.. If you want to create a data stream, click Add New.
cc.. Click Next.
44.. (Optional) Connect your web analytics platforms. If you choose not to connect to web analytics data,
you can’t see all the insights when opening the app.
aa.. Deselect the data streams that you don’t want the app to connect to.
bb.. If you want to create a data stream, click Add New.
55.. Click Install.
Run the Ecommerce Marketing Insights App
See which ecommerce platforms are generating the most revenue, and discover trends so that you can
adjust as needed.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To view installed Marketplace apps: Admins, Power Users, and Viewers
Installing the Ecommerce Marketing Insights app creates a collection with two complementary
visualizations: the Ecommerce Marketing Insights collection with two dashboard pages and the
661

=== PAGE 666 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Marketing Insights app page available in run mode.
If your data stream wasn’t mapped correctly and is missing the TotalOrderRevenue or MediaCost fields,
you must map them. For more information, see Modify Ecommerce Marketing Insights Settings
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and select the Ecommerce Marketing Insights app.
33.. To change the dates, use the calendar picker at the top of the page. By default, the KPIs Overview tab
appears.
View your total revenue and spend to understand your ROAS (Rate Over Ad Spend) and other KPIs.
See which platforms performed better, and view trends over time.
44.. To view a detailed analysis of your marketing channel data, select the Marketing Channels tab.
View all your marketing channels and their performance. Change the KPI, and view different
breakdowns using ROAS, revenue, or spend metrics. View details per channel. When you change the
channel, the widgets change accordingly.
55.. To view the accompanying dashboard or view more details, click Go to Dashboard or move to the
662

=== PAGE 667 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Visualize tab.
Modify Ecommerce Marketing Insights Settings
You can add or remove data streams and change how your data is mapped.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To modify Marketplace apps: Admins
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and select the Ecommerce Marketing Insights app.
33.. In the top right, click Settings.
44.. To add or remove a data stream, select a data stream and make your changes.
55.. To change or add a metric, select Mapping.
The TotalOrderRevenue and MediaCost fields must be mapped. You can’t save without mapping them.
66.. From the dropdown menu, select the metric.
Only currency-type metrics are available.
77.. Save your changes.
eCommerce Optimizer App
The eCommerce Optimizer app provides a complete interactive picture of your Return On Ad Spend
(ROAS) by connecting ecommerce spend and revenue. This app provides a detailed visual breakdown of
where your spend is performing best and how individual platform and channel performance updates.
Discover which first-party marketing touchpoints led to conversions or brought in the highest revenue
according to attribution models.
Set Up the eCommerce Optimizer App
663

=== PAGE 668 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The eCommerce Optimize app provides an analysis of Return On Ad Spend (ROAS) data. Setting up
the app involves connecting your revenue data and spend data.
Run the eCommerce Optimizer App
Run the eCommerce Optimizer app to see which channels and platforms are generating the most
optimized ROAS on your ecommerce sites
Set Up the eCommerce Optimizer App
The eCommerce Optimize app provides an analysis of Return On Ad Spend (ROAS) data. Setting up the
app involves connecting your revenue data and spend data.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To install Marketplace apps Admin
Installing the eCommerce Optimizer app requires:
•
A Google Analytics account with ecommerce Transactions tracking implemented.
•
If using custom Google Analytics data streams, mapped revenue to the Web Site Transaction Revenue
field.
•
Credentials or existing data streams of spend, such as Facebook ads, Google Adwords, Linkedin, and
Ads.
11.. Install the eCommerce Optimizer app:
aa.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
bb.. Select the app, and then click Get it Now.
22.. Connect your revenue data:
aa.. Click Start with your revenue data.
bb.. Connect to a Google Analytics data stream or create one. All websites configured for the account
appear in a list.
cc.. Select the website that you’re pulling data for.
33.. Enable additional touch points to show a page-level breakdown of the Google Analytics connector,
which allows the app to show insights of conversions in your site.
aa.. Select Enable page data points. A preview of the funnel appears.
bb.. Click Next.
44.. Connect your spend data:
aa.. Connect to an existing data stream or create one. If you’re creating a data stream, you can enter
authentication details for Google Ads or Facebook Ads.
bb.. If you’re connecting to existing data streams, all of the spend data streams found in your workspace
appear in a list. These data streams are available: Facebook Ads, Google AdWords, LinkedIn Ads,
Twitter Ads, YouTube Ads, and Pinterest Ads.
cc.. To remove a data steam, click the trash icon.
dd.. To add a new data stream from your workspace, click Add Data Stream from workspace.
ee.. Select the measurement that represents spend in each data stream. Media Cost is selected by
664

=== PAGE 669 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
default. If the data stream uses a different measurement, such as booked cost, change the default
measurement.
ff.. To change the date range of the measurement data, use the date picker. At the bottom of the table,
you can see the total ad spend data. This total changes according to the measurements and dates
that you select.
gg.. Click Next.
55.. Review the number of data streams and names for revenue and spend.
66.. To complete the installation, click Finish.
Installing the eCommerce Optimizer app creates these entities:
•
Data Streams
•
Calendar Events – Created by default for these major commerce events:
- Blue Monday
- Valentine’s Day
- International Women’s Day
- Easter Sunday and Easter Monday
- May Day
- Mother’s Day
- Father’s Day
- Halloween
- Singles’ Day
- Thanksgiving
- Black Friday
- Cyber Monday
- Saint Nicholas Day
- Christmas Day
•
Classification Rules – Created to map the different channels and platforms.
•
Calculated Dimensions – Created based on the classification rules.
•
Calculated Measurements – Created based on your data.
•
Filtered Measurements – If you select the page event checkbox during configuration, a funnel chart
and a new Cart Pages Viewed underlying entity are created.
•
EMI Bots – Created based on your data.
Run the eCommerce Optimizer App
Run the eCommerce Optimizer app to see which channels and platforms are generating the most
optimized ROAS on your ecommerce sites
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To run Marketplace apps Admin, Power User, or Viewer
665

=== PAGE 670 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and then select the eCommerce Optimizer app.
33.. Filter the app page by date.
44.. View the data:
•
Conversion data:
- Conversions – The total conversions for the time period. A conversion is an event that occurred as a
result of a touchpoint event.
- Revenue – The total revenue from the conversion for the time period. (If a revenue KPI doesn’t
exist, no data appears here. )
- Avg Customer Journey – The average time it took for all customers from the first touchpoint to the
conversion.
- Avg Events Until Conversion – The average number of events that occurred from the touchpoint to
the conversion.
- Conversion Number and Sum of Revenue Over Time – A comparison between the total
conversions and sum of revenue over time. It also identifies the dates when your revenue increased
or decreased.
•
Touchpoint data:
- Touchpoint name – Select a touchpoint to view data for.
- Breakdown – Select a breakdown you defined during setup. For example, if you define a breakdown
for a campaign, it appears here. You can then select a specific campaign that you want to focus on.
- Number of Conversions Over Touchpoints – A comparison between the number of conversions
per touchpoint.
- Sum of Revenue Over Touchpoints – The sum of revenue per touchpoint
•
Breakdown data:
- Breakdown selection – Select a breakdown to drill down to view specific data. (If you didn’t define
breakdowns during setup, this section appears with no data.)
- Number of Conversions Over Breakdown – The number of conversions for the breakdown that you
selected.
- Sum of Revenue Over Breakdowns – The revenue for the breakdown.
- Sum of Revenue – A comparison between the different touchpoints and breakdowns according to
the total revenue. For example, you can see which campaigns had the highest revenue via the Email
touchpoint and which had the highest revenue for the SMS touchpoint.
- Top 10 Breakdowns – A list of the top 10 breakdowns.
Email to Web Conversion GA4 App
Connect your web analytics and email data into one dashboard using the Email to Web Conversion GA4
app. The app simplifies the process of data harmonization between emails and traffic and addresses the
email use case for multiple email vendors.
Note Starting from July 1st, 2023, this app will no longer support UA360 and will only be
compatible with GA4. To access your GA4 instance, you need to install the new version of this app:
Email to Web Conversion GA4. For more information, see Set Up the Email to Web Conversion GA4
App
666

=== PAGE 671 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Here’s a video about recent enhancements to the Email to Web Conversion app:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/t2fGVs1u4zALGbE3BRqoPp?
Requirements for Harmonizing Your Data in the Email to Web Conversion G4 App
To harmonize your data, the Email to Web Conversion GA4 app matches your Google Analytics and
email campaign names. Therefore, if you’re using different naming conventions for Google Analytics
and your email data, classify your campaign names so that the app can locate the data from each
source.
Set Up the Email to Web Conversion GA4 App
The Email to Web Conversion GA4 app connects your web analytics and email data into one
dashboard. The app simplifies data harmonization between emails and traffic. Setting up the app
involves classifying your Google Analytics campaign names and email campaign names so that they
match.
Run the Email to Web Conversion GA4 App
Installing the Email to Web Conversion GA4 app creates a collection with two complementary
visualizations: the Email Campaign Performance dashboard and the Email to Web Conversion app
page. The dashboard provides a comprehensive view of your email campaign’s performance.
GA4 Fields Available in the Email to Web Conversion App
The Email to Web Conversion GA4 app was rebuilt to work with GA4, and therefore some fields were
changed accordingly.
Requirements for Harmonizing Your Data in the Email to Web Conversion G4 App
To harmonize your data, the Email to Web Conversion GA4 app matches your Google Analytics and email
campaign names. Therefore, if you’re using different naming conventions for Google Analytics and your
email data, classify your campaign names so that the app can locate the data from each source.
Many times a campaign name contains irrelevant information. For example, if your campaign name is
Summer_2021_Shoes_Sale and you want it to say Summer Sale, create a rule that removes the
unneeded information.
You can create a final campaign name in two ways.
•
Use Contains — Add a rule to create the final campaign name. For example, if the name contains the
letters “ABC,” the final campaign name is “ABC Campaign.”
•
Use a Pattern — Extract a specific term according to a position and delimiter in the naming convention.
You can then use the extracted term to classify the campaigns. For example, if your naming
convention is “summer_sale_1,” extract the first position, which is “summer.” Then use the term
“summer” as the contains term, and classify the campaigns according to the term.
Set Up the Email to Web Conversion GA4 App
The Email to Web Conversion GA4 app connects your web analytics and email data into one dashboard.
The app simplifies data harmonization between emails and traffic. Setting up the app involves classifying
667

=== PAGE 672 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
your Google Analytics campaign names and email campaign names so that they match.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To install Marketplace apps Admin
To install the Email to Web Conversion GA4 app, you need:
•
Google Analytics account for web analytics data, and you must have UTM campaigns defined for your
emails.
•
Salesforce Marketing Cloud or Marketing Cloud Engagement (Pardot) account for email data.
Note If you installed the older version of this app (Email to Web Conversion app) and you want to
access your GA4 data, you must reinstall the new app (Email to Web Conversion GA4).
11.. Install the Email to Web Conversion GA4 app.
aa.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
bb.. Select the app, and click Get it Now.
22.. Connect your Google Analytics data.
aa.. To create a Google Analytics data stream, enter your authentication details, and select the websites
to pull data for, and then click Next.
bb.. To use an existing Google Analytics data stream, select it from the dropdown list, and then click
Next.
Note If, because the Get Campaigns checkbox isn’t selected in the data stream’s settings, you
don’t define a data stream to bring in campaign data, Marketing Cloud Intelligence adds the
campaign data after the app is installed.
33.. Connect your email data. You can connect to either Marketing Cloud or Marketing Cloud Engagement
(Pardot). You can also choose whether to connect to an existing data stream or create one.
aa.. To create a data stream, enter your authentication details to either Marketing Cloud or Marketing
Cloud Engagement (Pardot), and click Next. A message informs you that the data stream is being
created. You receive an email when the data stream is created, and you can then continue with
installing the app.
bb.. To use an existing data stream, select it from the dropdown list, and click Next.
44.. Match your Google Analytics campaigns with your email campaigns.
aa.. Click Get Started.
bb.. Select the relevant dimension that represents your email campaign names. By default, Message
Send Name is selected.
cc.. Change the date range if needed. For example, if no data appears and you know that there was data
in September, change the date range to September. By default, the time range uses the previous
month.
dd.. To export your Google Analytics data so that you can work on it later, click Export File.
ee.. Click Next.
55.. Classify your Google Analytics campaign names.
aa.. To explicitly define the final campaign name, click Use Contains.
aa.. If you’re classifying only a few campaign names, manually enter the information in the Contains
668

=== PAGE 673 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
and Final Campaign Name columns, and click Next. For example, in the Contains column, enter
ABC, and in the Campaign Name column, enter ABC Campaign.
bb.. If you’re classifying many campaign names, click Upload File, and download the CSV template file
to ensure that you use the correct headers and columns. Enter the information in the file, upload
it, and then click Next. A preview shows you which names have been classified.
bb.. To create final campaign names by matching terms, click Use a Pattern.
aa.. Enter your delimiter, select the position of the campaign name that you’re extracting, and click
Apply. For example, to use the first term in your campaign name, select Position 1. All words in
position 1 with the selected delimiter are highlighted.
bb.. Create an exact match for the position to classify the campaign names.
cc.. If you’re classifying only a few campaign names, manually enter the information in the Contains
and Final Campaign Name columns, and click Next. For example, in the Contains column, enter
ABC, and in the Campaign Name column, enter ABC Campaign.
dd.. If you’re classifying many campaign names, click Upload File, and download the CSV template file
to ensure that you use the correct headers and columns. Enter the information in the file, upload
it, and then click Next.
After you upload the file, a blue checkmark appears next to the classified names, and the
progress bar shows how many names were classified. On the right side, all the extracted
campaign names appear with their final campaign names.
cc.. Save your changes, and click Next.
66.. Classify your email campaign names.
Important Your Marketing Cloud or Marketing Cloud Engagement (Pardot) final campaign names
must be the same as the Google Analytics final campaign names. Otherwise, the app can’t match
the two sets of data and calculate your email-to-web conversions.
aa.. To use the same naming rules as defined for Google Analytics, select Apply the same naming rules
as defined for Google Analytics. This option lets you start from what you’ve already defined and
change it to match the naming convention that you have for your email campaigns.
bb.. To leave your email data as is, select Skip and keep my web analytics data as is.
cc.. To explicitly define the final campaign name, click Use Contains.
aa.. If you’re classifying only a few campaign names, manually enter the information in the Contains
and Final Campaign Name columns, and click Next. For example, in the Contains column, enter
ABC, and in the Campaign Name column, enter ABC Campaign.
bb.. If you’re classifying many campaign names, click Upload File, and download the CSV template file
to ensure that you use the correct headers and columns. Enter the information in the file, upload
it, and then click Next.
dd.. To create final campaign names by matching terms, click Use a Pattern.
aa.. Enter your delimiter, select the position of the campaign name that you’re extracting, and click
Apply. For example, to use the first term in your campaign name, select Position 1. All words in
position 1 with the selected delimiter are highlighted.
bb.. Create an exact match for the position to classify the campaign names.
cc.. If you’re classifying only a few campaign names, manually enter the information in the Contains
and Final Campaign Name columns, and click Next. For example, in the Contains column, enter
ABC, and in the Campaign Name column, enter ABC Campaign.
669

=== PAGE 674 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
dd.. If you’re classifying many campaign names, click Upload File, and download the CSV template file
to ensure that you use the correct headers and columns. Enter the information in the file, upload
it, and then click Next.
After you upload the file, a blue checkmark appears next to the classified names, and the
progress bar shows how many names were classified. On the right side, all the extracted
campaign names appear with their final campaign names.
ee.. Click Next.
77.. Complete the installation.
aa.. If you want to change any names, click Review.
bb.. To install the app, click Finish.
Run the Email to Web Conversion GA4 App
Installing the Email to Web Conversion GA4 app creates a collection with two complementary
visualizations: the Email Campaign Performance dashboard and the Email to Web Conversion app page.
The dashboard provides a comprehensive view of your email campaign’s performance.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To view installed Marketplace apps Admin, Power User, or Viewer
The app page is interactive and shows a complete view of email campaign data.
Note If you installed the previous version of this app (Email to Web Conversion app) prior to the
GA4 version (Email to Web Conversion GA4 app), the old Google Analytics data stream won’t be
processed anymore and the app will show data until the last processed date.
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and select the Email to Web Conversion GA4 app.
33.. Filter the app page by campaign and date.
44.. To apply additional filters, click Settings. For example, remove campaigns that have less than 5 sent
items.
55.. To switch between the app page and dashboard page, click Go to Dashboard.
The app page is divided into these tabs: Conversion, Traffic, and Performance.
Conversion - Get details about conversion performance per email campaign.
Traffic - See which day of the week had the most email traffic.
Which day of the week has the most email traffic? Shows days of the week and the average time spent
on the site. To see insights for that specific day, click a day.
•
Best-performing channel of the day.
•
The average lag from when the email was delivered to when the site was visited. This metric is the
670

=== PAGE 675 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
difference between the average date the traffic from a specific campaign appeared on the website and
the average date the campaign was sent.
•
The average time on the site for the email channel.
•
The average time on site for all the other channels.
Performance - See overall campaign performance by looking at two measurements: Message Open Rate
from the email marketing side and Visitor Bounce Rate from the web analytics side. A high Message
Open Rate and low Visitor Bounce Rate indicates that your campaign performed well.
•
Campaign Performance — Filter by Message Open Rate or Visitor Bounce Rate.
•
Badges — How successful your campaign was according to Marketing Cloud Intelligence badges.
Badges look at your campaign’s average Message Open Rate and Visitor Bounce Rate to determine the
campaign’s performance. There are three badges available:
- Message Quality — Examines the quality of your message. A high message open rate suggests that
the message subject, audience reach, and time the message was sent appealed to your users and
encouraged them to open the message.
- Quality of Content — Examines the quality of the content of the message. For example, the
campaign has a clear and effective Call to Action for the audience it was sent to, or the landing page
is relevant and interested users.
- Audience Targeting — Examines how you targeted your audience for the campaign. For example, if
your campaign is for women sports shoes and you targeted women aged 20–50, then your target
audience is correct. However, if your target audience is men aged 50–80, you didn’t target your
audience correctly.
GA4 Fields Available in the Email to Web Conversion App
The Email to Web Conversion GA4 app was rebuilt to work with GA4, and therefore some fields were
changed accordingly.
This list displays the old fields that were used in the previous version of the app (Email to Web
Conversion) and the new fields that the new app (Email to Web Conversion GA4) now uses. These fields
appear in the run mode of the app.
Note This list is only relevant to the Email to Web Conversion app, GA4 is not suggesting an
interchangeable solution between UA data and GA4. For more information about GA4, see GA4
Google Documentation
Comparison of Fields in the Email to Web Conversion App
UA Field GA4 Field
Daily Visitors visitors (total_users)
Page View screenPageViews
Website transactions transactions
671

=== PAGE 676 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Note The Visitor Bounce Rate has a new calculation to align with GA4. For more information, see
GA4 Metrics
Implementation Templates App
Use the Implementation Templates app to download QA templates for testing and validating data
sources. When you download a template, a new page is added to your collection so that you can easily
access the template.
Install the Implementation Templates App
Use the Implementation Templates app to access ready-to-use QA templates. No setup is required
after you install the app.
Run the Implementation Templates App
Download QA templates for testing and validating data sources directly to your workspace. You can
then access the template whenever needed. A new page is created in your collection for each
template you select. You can then go directly to the page and start checking your data sources.
Install the Implementation Templates App
Use the Implementation Templates app to access ready-to-use QA templates. No setup is required after
you install the app.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To install Marketplace apps: Admin
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Select the Implementation Templates app, and click Get it Now.
You can start using the app immediately after installation. If you experience issues with a template or
want to request a new one, contact Support.
Run the Implementation Templates App
Download QA templates for testing and validating data sources directly to your workspace. You can then
access the template whenever needed. A new page is created in your collection for each template you
select. You can then go directly to the page and start checking your data sources.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To run Marketplace apps: Admin, Power Users, or Viewers
672

=== PAGE 677 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and then select the Implementation Templates app.
33.. From the Data Provider QA Templates dropdown, select the data source templates that you want to
download to your workspace.
44.. From the QA Validation Templates dropdown, select the validation templates that you want to
download to your workspace.
55.. From the General Templates dropdown, select the templates that you want to download to your
workspace:
••
Discovery Instructions—Use this template as a checklist when sitting with a customer during the
discovery phase.
••
Email Optimization—Use this template to check campaign performance.
••
MPO—Use this template to check Media Performance Optimization.
66.. To add the templates to your workspace, click Create. The Visualize tab opens showing the last
created dashboard page displayed by default. A collection and dashboard page is created for each
template that you selected.
Contains a dashboard page for each data source
QA Frameworks
that you selected.
Contains a dashboard page for each validation
QA Validations
template that you selected.
If you selected MPO or Email Optimization, a
Jumpstart separate collection is created with a dashboard
page for each template.
f you selected Discovery Instructions, two
Discovery dashboard pages are created: Discovery
Instructions and Rollout Instructions.
If you selected the Rollout Instructions
template, in addition to the new collection and
dashboard page, calculated dimensions are also
Rollout Instructions
created. Review the Rollout Instructions
template to see how to use these calculated
dimensions.
Lead Generation App
The Lead Generation app tracks the relationship between Lead Generations and Opportunities, and it
harmonizes and connects your lead generation data.
Here’s a video about the Lead Generation app:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/jA8Pt5HXFXQDQYpriAbt4B?
673

=== PAGE 678 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Set Up the Lead Generation App
The Lead Generation app provides an analysis of lead generation data. Setting up the app involves
authenticating and setting queries, setting up a funnel, and classifying your opportunity stages.
Run the Lead Generation App
Use the Lead Generation app to see a complete view of lead generation data.
Set Up the Lead Generation App
The Lead Generation app provides an analysis of lead generation data. Setting up the app involves
authenticating and setting queries, setting up a funnel, and classifying your opportunity stages.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To install Marketplace apps Admin
To install the Lead Generation app, you need a valid login to Salesforce CRM that can extract data
through SOQL and access to Leads, Opportunities, and Contacts.
11.. Install the Lead Generation app:
aa.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
bb.. Select the app, and click Get it Now.
22.. Authenticate your account:
aa.. Select an existing account or create one. After the account is defined, all of the account’s queries
appear. There are three types: Accounts, Opportunity, and Leads.
bb.. Set the date for which you want to grab data.
cc.. Click Next.
33.. Set up the lead status funnel:
A list of all lead statuses found in your account appears in the form of a funnel. Reorganize the funnel
to reflect your organization’s lead generation process.
aa.. To add or remove a funnel step, click a step, and then select a different status from the dropdown.
bb.. Change the order of the funnel steps by selecting and moving the steps.
cc.. Move the Marketing Qualified Lead threshold line to the correct location, and then define the phase
where an Unqualified Lead becomes Qualified.
dd.. Click Next.
44.. Classify your opportunity stages:
aa.. Drag and drop the opportunity stages into three categories: In Pipeline, Closed Won, and Closed
Lost.
bb.. To Complete the app installation, click Finish.
Installing the Lead Generation app creates these underlying entities:
•
Leads data stream in SOQL
•
Opportunities data stream in SOQL
•
Calculated dimensions and measurements
674

=== PAGE 679 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Run the Lead Generation App
Use the Lead Generation app to see a complete view of lead generation data.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To run Marketplace apps Admin, Power User, or Viewer
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and then select the Lead Generation app.
33.. Filter the page by lead status, lead source, and lead creation data.
44.. Toggle between the two tabs: Lead Pipeline Overview and Lead to Opportunity.
55.. In the Lead Pipeline Overview, monitor your lead generation data:
Compares the number of leads from last quarter
Leads Created QOQ
to this quarter.
Compares the number of leads from last month
Leads Created MOM
to this month.
Compares the number of leads from last week to
Leads Created WOW
this week.
Lead Creation by Quarter A detailed view of leads per quarter.
Lead Creation by Month A detailed view of leads per month.
A list of the top 6 leads. To change the data, filter
Lead Exploration Top 6
by lead source, status, and owner.
Shows the leads per status, according to how you
Lead Status Funnel defined the funnel statuses during setup. To view
the lead names, click a status.
Shows all the leads broken down by different
dimensions. For example, per month and per
Lead Exploration
lead status. Clear any of the leads you don't want
to view on the right-hand side of the graph.
66.. In the Lead to Opportunity tab, review your conversions, and see how they performed during the
Leads to Sales Funnel. See which channels provide faster conversions, and explore your
Opportunities.
Note To see this view, click Convert Lead. If you don’t use it, Salesforce can’t create a connection
between a lead and opportunity.
675

=== PAGE 680 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Overall Leads Created The total number of leads created in the account.
The total number of leads converted into
Leads Converted to Contact
contacts.
The total number of leads converted into
Leads Converted to Opportunities
opportunities.
All the leads that led to sales by channel. To view
Leads to Sales Funnel
exact numbers and dates, click a channel.
A breakdown of Lead Creation Date or Lead
Lead to Opportunity Cohort Analysis
Source divided into time periods.
All the opportunities broken down by different
dimensions. For example, view lead creation
Opportunity Exploration
quarters broken down by different opportunity
stages.
Marketing Assistant App
Interact with Marketing Cloud Intelligence using voice or text to ask simple questions about marketing
data. The Marketing Assistant app provides detailed answers in both voice and visuals.
Note Voice commands are powered only by Amazon Alexa.
Set Up the Marketing Assistant App
The Marketing Assistant app displays a high-level overview of your marketing data. If you’re using voice
commands, you configure the top KPIs and goals and define filters.
Run the Marketing Assistant App
Use the Marketing Assistant app to ask questions about your marketing data and see results.
Set Up the Marketing Assistant App
The Marketing Assistant app displays a high-level overview of your marketing data. If you’re using voice
commands, you configure the top KPIs and goals and define filters.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To install Marketplace apps Admin
To interact with the Marketing Assistant app using voice, you need:
•
An Amazon Alexa account
•
An Alexa device
11.. Install the Marketing Assistant app.
676

=== PAGE 681 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
aa.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
bb.. Select the app, and click Get it Now.
22.. Pair an Alexa device.
aa.. Follow the instructions on the screen.
If you don’t want to interact with voice, click Next to skip this step. If you change your mind and
want to use voice commands, you can change the settings in the app.
Note You must have the Marketing Assistant Skill enabled in your Alexa account. If you’re using
an Alexa device in a different language, select your target language by clicking Change
Language. For example, change the language to Spanish. After you change the language, the
passphrase now appears in the selected language and you can communicate with the Alexa
device in your target language.
Note The app still appears in English, but you can ask the device questions in your target
language.
bb.. Click Next.
33.. Configure top KPIs and goals.
On the Assistant Training page, configure the top KPIs and their goals. Define which KPIs you can track
and how you pronounce their names. By default, Marketing Cloud Intelligence displays the eight-most
used KPIs in your workspace.
aa.. Add or remove KPIs.
bb.. To change the order of the questions asked, move the cards.
cc.. To set a goal for the KPI, click Set Goal and then set a period and enter a value. For example, over or
under 1,000 impressions.
dd.. Click Next.
44.. Define filters.
A filter controls what users can access. You can define up to three filters using any dimension in the
workspace. For example, you can show data only for a specific campaign or site.
55.. To complete the installation, click Install.
Installing the Marketing Assistant app creates these underlying entities.
•
Einstein Marketing Insights Bots - the app creates bots for any of the top KPIs that can be used as
Insights Bots.
•
Goals - One goal is created for each goal that was set in the top KPIs
Run the Marketing Assistant App
Use the Marketing Assistant app to ask questions about your marketing data and see results.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To run Marketplace apps Admins, Power Users, or Viewers
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and then select the Marketing Assistant app.
677

=== PAGE 682 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
33.. On the Conversation tab, ask Alexa about your configured KPIs by either typing in the question or
using voice. The app displays a dashboard with the results.
44.. To export the dashboard as a PDF, click Export View as PDF. You also use voice commands and tell
Alexa to export the page for you.
55.. To save the app page as a standalone dashboard page, click Save View as Data Canvas Page.
66.. On the Daily Brief tab, see which KPIs are either on track or underperforming. (If goals weren’t
defined, the widget is empty.)
77.. To customize the app, click the Settings icon in the top right of the page. Here you can change the
device’s pairing settings, adjust the KPIs and filters.
88.. To change the top dimensions per KPI, select Assistant Training and click Set Breakdowns. For
example, change the dimension from Device Category to Campaign, so you can see a breakdown of
your Page Views by campaign.
Troubleshooting Device Pairing
ISSUE POSSIBLE RESOLUTION
Enable – Alexa doesn’t confirm that the skill is
11.. Make sure Alexa is on.
enabled
22.. Try enabling the Marketing Assistant by
Marketing Cloud Intelligence skill through the
Alexa Skills store. See Alexa Help for more
information about enabling a skill.
Pairing – Alexa doesn’t ask for the passphrase
11.. Try again, maybe she misunderstood.
22.. Make sure Alexa is on.
33.. Make sure that you enabled the skill properly.
44.. Check the Alexa app to see what she hears
you saying.
Passphrase – If you receive the error Ask to pair again and then repeat the phrase.
“unauthorized passphrase”
Passphrase – Don’t know how to properly say the Regenerate the passphrase and try again until you
passphrase? get one that you’re more comfortable saying.
Can’t get an answer
11.. Alexa didn’t recognize the skill that you’re
trying to trigger. Make sure that you say “Ask
Marketing Assistant” before asking your
request.
22.. Alexa didn’t recognize which view you’re
asking for.
33.. Make sure that you’re using the correct
phrasing, using one of the following
templates (or use the suggestions in the app)
678

=== PAGE 683 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
ISSUE POSSIBLE RESOLUTION
••
{KPI VOICE NAME} overview during {Date
Range}
••
{KPI VOICE NAME} analysis broken down
by {KPI’s top dimension} during {Date
Range}
••
Daily brief
44.. Make sure that you’re asking about KPIs and
breakdowns that are available in this app
instance.
55.. Use the Settings → Assistant Training screen
to see which KPIs and breakdowns are
available in the app instance.
66.. Make sure that you’re using the right voice
name for the KPIs (measurements) and
breakdowns (dimensions) that you’re
referencing, as defined in the Assistant
Training settings screen.
77.. For admins only: Make sure that filters aren’t
applied to your view in the default filters
settings screen that causes your query to
return no results. Use the Settings → Content
Permissions screen.
Marketing Insights for Sales Cloud App
The Marketing Insights for Sales Cloud app helps marketers and sales understand how their marketing
efforts and spend convert into revenue. The app provides various views to analyze data based on
objectives. For example, find the weak links in a sales funnel or the business justifications to allocate a
certain percentage of your marketing budget to a campaign.
Here’s a video about the Marketing Insights for Sales Cloud app:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/VQ75NzGz2W1fHNk3bD7o7o?
Set Up the Marketing Insights for Sales Cloud App
The Marketing Insights for Sales Cloud app provides an overview of marketing efforts and spend and
how they convert into revenue. Setting up the app involves connecting CRM data, connecting ad data,
and harmonizing CRM and ad data.
Run the Marketing Insights for Sales Cloud App
Use the Marketing Insights for Sales Cloud app to review your marketing efforts and spend and how
they convert into revenue.
679

=== PAGE 684 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Set Up the Marketing Insights for Sales Cloud App
The Marketing Insights for Sales Cloud app provides an overview of marketing efforts and spend and
how they convert into revenue. Setting up the app involves connecting CRM data, connecting ad data,
and harmonizing CRM and ad data.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To install Marketplace apps Admin
To install the Marketing Insights for Sales Cloud app requires:
•
Salesforce Sales Cloud as the CRM and these objects
- Leads
- Opportunities
- Accounts
- Contacts
- Campaigns
- Campaign Members
•
No CRM data in Marketing Cloud Intelligence (the app supports only new CRM data stream creation)
•
Running paid ad campaigns on common advertising platforms
These advertising platforms are supported in the Marketing Insights for Sales Cloud app:
•
Google AdWords
•
Facebook Ads
•
Bing Ads
•
Twitter Ads
•
Instagram
•
YouTube Ads
•
Linkedin Ads
•
Pinterest
11.. Install the Marketing Insights for Sales Cloud app.
aa.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
bb.. Select the app, and click Get it Now.
cc.. Click Start.
22.. Connect the CRM data.
aa.. Connect to a Salesforce CRM data source or create one.
bb.. Select the time period for retrieving CRM data, and click Apply.
cc.. A preview of all the CRM tables appears on the right side. To view which data points are extracted,
hover over a table.
dd.. Click Next. A list of fields for harmonizing the CRM data appears.
ee.. Click Next.
33.. Classify the CRM statuses and stages.
aa.. Drag each displayed status according to the correct bucket: Lead or Qualified Lead.
680

=== PAGE 685 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
bb.. Click Next.
cc.. Drag each displayed stage to the correct bucket: Opportunities or Closed Won.
dd.. Click Next.
44.. Connect the ad data.
aa.. Select an existing ad data stream. If a data stream doesn’t exist, create one on the Connect & Mix
tab.
bb.. Save a draft of the app before creating the data stream to continue from the same stage.
cc.. Click Next.
55.. Harmonize the CRM and ad data.
The harmonization takes place between the name field in the CRM’s campaign object and the
campaign name field in the Ads data stream.
aa.. Determine whether the name of the field that connects your CRM and campaign data together are
identical. If they aren’t identical, you must create a pattern or a classification. If the names are
identical, from the Usage dropdown, select Identical. For example, if the name is “My Product
Summer_Sale” in Ads, and “My Product Summer_Sale” in the CRM.
bb.. If the name of the field that connects your CRM and campaign data contain the same naming
conventions but aren’t identical from the Usage dropdown, select Pattern. Enter the delimiter,
select the position, and select which Ads data you want to apply it to. For example, if the name is
“Summer_Sale” in Ads, and “My Product Summer_Sale” in the CRM, you can use a pattern with a
space delimiter and select position 3.
cc.. If the name of the field that connects your CRM and campaign data is different, from the Usage
dropdown, select Classification. For example, if the name is “Summer-campaign” in Ads, and “My
Product Summer_Sale” in the CRM, upload a classification file.
66.. Review the data in the preview tables for each data source, and then click Finish.
After the Marketing Insights for Sales Cloud app installs, these underlying entities are created:
•
Six data streams for your CRM data
•
34 calculated measurements
•
Harmonized dimensions
Run the Marketing Insights for Sales Cloud App
Use the Marketing Insights for Sales Cloud app to review your marketing efforts and spend and how they
convert into revenue.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To run Marketplace apps Admins, Power Users, or Viewers
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and then select the Marketing Insights for Sales Cloud app.
33.. Click the Customer Acquisition tab to get a high-level view of your campaign’s performance.
It shows a part of your sales funnel and how your spend and revenue are doing in correlation to it. It
681

=== PAGE 686 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
also displays the conversion rate between opportunities and closed-wons and the average time it took,
in weeks, for an opportunity to convert to a closed-won.
44.. Click the Weak Links tab to see the weak points within your sales funnel.
It shows the conversion rates of the different stages in your funnel and the average time it takes for a
lead to move to the next step.
55.. Click the Budget Justification tab to help you justify the allocation of your budget to your stakeholders
and to yourself.
The funnel indicates how much spend went in and how it converted throughout the cycle to leads,
opportunities, revenue, and ROI. You can also see the cost per lead and the cost per opportunity.
The Cost Per Lead, Closed-Won Rate, and ROI columns are three critical elements in recognizing
whether a campaign was successful. For example, a campaign that uses 40% of your budget has a low
cost per lead, high closed-won rate, and a high ROI.
Media Naming Builder App
Create consistent campaign, placement, and creative names that match your naming conventions using
the Media Naming Builder app. Instead of manually generating names with other third-party tools, add
hundreds of names instantly based on your naming convention patterns and avoid data discrepancies.
The Media Naming Builder can also be accessed via the Harmonization Center. For more information,
see Generate Media Names with the Media Naming Builder.
Install the Media Naming Builder App
The Media Naming Builder app allows you to create hundred of names (campaign, placement, and
creative) based on naming conventions.
Use the Media Naming Builder App
After the Media Naming Builder app installs, you can use it to create hundreds of names based on
naming convention patterns.
Install the Media Naming Builder App
The Media Naming Builder app allows you to create hundred of names (campaign, placement, and
creative) based on naming conventions.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To install Marketplace apps: Admin
682

=== PAGE 687 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
No configuration is needed with this app. You only need to download it to your workspace. No
underlying entities are created either.
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Select the app and click Get it Now.
After the app installs it’s immediately ready to use, no further configuration is required.
Use the Media Naming Builder App
After the Media Naming Builder app installs, you can use it to create hundreds of names based on
naming convention patterns.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To view installed Marketplace apps: Admin, Power User, and Viewer
You must have a naming convention pattern in your workspace in order to use this app. If you uploaded
a validation file when creating your pattern you can choose from a list of values when creating your
names. For more information, see Create a Naming Convention Pattern.
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and then select the Media Naming Builder app.
33.. To create media names, select the values from the dropdown list or manually enter the values.
44.. Click Add Combinations.
A list of all the combinations appears on the right-hand side. One group is created for all the
combinations.
55.. Add more combinations as needed.
If you add another combination it appears as a new group under the first one.
66.. After you’re done building names, click Export.
An Excel file of your names is created. Use caution when changing the names in the Excel file, because
683

=== PAGE 688 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
your changes can affect your patterns.
Media Pacing App
The Media Pacing app is an instant pacing package for your Media Transparency Center. It provides you
with visualization into your Planned Spend and Booked Units against your Actual Spend and Delivered
Units.
With visualizations that use color coding and effective filtering options, you can identify where your
attention is needed in real time, so that you can take the necessary actions to get back on track. The
Media Pacing app is for anyone that needs a tool for analyzing, monitoring, and optimizing media
planning activities and planning.
Here’s a video about the Media Pacing app:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/PHVYXgxpvSJ5K42Hpum5N7?
Install the Media Pacing App
The Media Pacing app provides an overview of how well your media campaigns are pacing based on
already defined data.
Run the Media Pacing App
After you install the Media Pacing app you can start visualizing your IO data. This allows you to easily
and efficiently identify under and over pacing campaigns.
Install the Media Pacing App
The Media Pacing app provides an overview of how well your media campaigns are pacing based on
already defined data.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To install Marketplace apps: Admin
In order to install this app, you must have the Media Transparency Center (MTC) enabled in your
account. MTC is a premium feature. If you’re interested in purchasing MTC, contact your Marketing Cloud
Intelligence Account Manager. No configuration is needed with this app. You only download it to your
workspace.
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Select the app and click Get it Now.
After the app installs it’s immediately ready to use, no further configuration is required.
Installing the Media Pacing app creates 33 underlying entities:
•
25 calculated measurements
684

=== PAGE 689 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
4 calculated dimensions
•
4 highlighting rules
•
1 insights bot
To customize the calculations and align them to your own business logic, modify the underlying entities.
For example, if you want to only consider a result of the calculation to be 'over pacing’ when it’s greater
or equal to 115%, edit the calculated measurement.
Run the Media Pacing App
After you install the Media Pacing app you can start visualizing your IO data. This allows you to easily and
efficiently identify under and over pacing campaigns.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To view installed Marketplace apps: Admin, Power User, and Viewer
685

=== PAGE 690 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
The IOs are presented using color coding, allowing you to immediately identify how well each IO is
pacing. The color coding is based on a calculation of the Actual Spend to date, as a percentage of the
Expected Spend to date, and is governed by the following key:
< 70% = ‘Under pacing’, color: Red
> 70% and < 90% = ‘Pacing Risk’, color: Orange
> 90% and < 110% = ’Pacing On Track’, color: Green
>110% = ‘Over pacing’, color: Purple
11.. To open the app, go to your Workspace Apps and double-click. Notice in this example that the overall
actual spend to date isn’t in line with the originally planned spend, resulting in under pacing.
22.. To view only Under Pacing and Over Pacing IOs, change the filters under the overall score.
33.. Change the date range at the top-right corner of the page if necessary. A few notes about the date
range:
Note
••
Out of all the IOs that were active within the selected range, the earliest IO Start Date, and the
latest IO End Date serve as the two extremities for the IO visualization.
••
All IOs that had any activity within the date range are visualized on the timeline view, each with
its own Start and End Date.
••
There’s an option Show Only Live IOs. An IO is considered to be Live only if it’s active on the
Current Date on which you’ve accessed the app. If the current date resides between an IO’s
start and end dates, it’s visualized. Each IO is visualized with its own Start and End dates. This
option allows you to instantly focus your view on IOs that are currently active and therefore
require your attention more urgently than others.
44.. In the Timeline view, focus on the IOs that require further monitoring to see what’s causing
misalignment between the actual and planned data. Here you can see information about the IO,
including IO Name, Capped Cost (budget), and IO Cost Type by default.
55.. To change the columns, click the cogwheel and select the names you require. You can display up to
three columns.
66.. By default, the timeline display is at a Monthly breakdown, but you can change it to Weekly or Daily
breakdowns.
77.. In IOs Remaining Days, filter by remaining days, for example, view IOs that have less than 3 days left.
88.. To drill down, click a specific IO.
Note
••
There are two important filter options here, which dynamically change the view and the title of
the graph (3). (1) Spend/Units and (2) Daily/Total.
••
The app considers this IO to be over pacing because the actual cost is higher than the
expected cost. After analyzing the Total aggregation mode, switch to Daily view and see on
686

=== PAGE 691 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
which actual days the spend exceeded what was planned, in order to try and understand what
caused the over pacing.
••
To see the absolute values of each of the measurements and the difference between them,
hover over a specific day.
99.. Click the stacked view and view the actual media buys that generated activity on each day. They
appear stacked on the bars of the graph.
1100.. Hover over an IO and view the media buy name. When media buy stacking is on, you can also see the
top 5 media buys that generated the most spend or have delivered the most units (depending on your
current focus). Spot the days on which a certain media buy was active and the activity that it
generated.
1111.. Investigate an under pacing IO. Notice there’s an IO with no media buy associated with it, therefore it’s
underpaying.
Ask your Marketing Cloud Intelligence admin to look into it and make the required association in the
MTC implementation within the workspace.
1122.. The Media Pacing app also provides an option so you can view out of the box EMI (Einstein Marketing
Insights) that are pre-configured for your IOs. This is located below the date picker and shows all
insights that were found. You can click an insight, which directs you to the EMI page so you can view
more information about a specific insight.
Media Planning Center App
The Media Planning Center enables advertisers to create plans for strategic allocation of advertising
budget. It facilitates budget allocation at a high level, for entities such as channels, platforms, or strategy.
With the Media Planning Center you get full and immediate access to all historical actuals related to
budgeted entities. This app uses past performance in order to forecast what the future performance is
likely to be, and suggests more cost effective budgeting decisions. There’s no need to import or export
data, since all of your historical actuals and planned budget are connected in one place.
It’s important to note that the Media Planning Center app is used at the first stage of the media planning
process. It doesn’t replace platforms or tools that are used at a later stage to create media plans that are
at the IO (Insertion Order) or IO-Like level.
In this diagram you can see the Media Planning Center’s positioning in the media planning process:
There are no technical prerequisites for using the Media Planning Center app and you don’t need the
Media Transparency Center or the Media Pacing app to use it.
Note The Media Planning Center app is a paid app and appears in demo mode until purchased.
Contact your account manager for more information.
Here’s a video about the Media Planning Center app Scenario Planning:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/xv4v6SVHNsNvh5fcQSvsZT?
687

=== PAGE 692 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Set Up the Media Planning Center App
The Media Planning Center app manages media plans, analyzes spending, and optimizes budget.
Underlying Entities in the Media Planning Center App
A maximum of 9 underlying entities are created with the Media Planning Center app.
Run the Media Planning Center App
Use the Media Planning Center to create a strategic budget allocation plan.
EMI Budget Allocator
The Media Planning Center EMI Budget allocator is a tool used to automatically produce a
recommended media budget scenario. Using AI-based forecasting and optimization algorithms, the
EMI Budget Allocator offers an optimal suggestion on how to split your allocated budget, across your
channels, platforms, and overall strategy.
Set Up the Media Planning Center App
The Media Planning Center app manages media plans, analyzes spending, and optimizes budget.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To install Marketplace apps: Admin
After the app installs you must define the time frame of the media plan for budget allocation and set
your spend and success measures.
11.. Install the Media Planning Center app.
aa.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
bb.. Select the app and click Get it Now.
cc.. Click Next.
22.. Define the time frame you want to plan your budget allocation for.
The time frame is made up of two components, the date range and the increments that this range is
subdivided into.
aa.. Select the increments.
bb.. Set the date range using the calendar. As you set the dates, a preview of your budgeting plan
appears at the bottom of the page and changes as you make adjustments.
688

=== PAGE 693 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Partial date ranges that conflict with your selected increments aren’t supported. If you select
monthly increments and have a date range with a partial month in it, the partial month is auto-
selected as the entire month. The same applies to weekly, and quarterly increments.
cc.. To set your plan according to your organization’s fiscal calendar, select Use Workspace custom
calendar.
689

=== PAGE 694 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Note You must have a custom calendar setup in your workspace. Contact your account
manager for more information.
It’s suggested that you have custom calendar installed for the previous year, as well as the current
one. This way you can compare by correlating date ranges.
dd.. Click Next.
33.. Select the dimensions by which you want to perform your budget allocation and define the hierarchy
between them.
aa.. These dimensions can be any dimensions that you have in your workspace. You can have a total of 5
dimensions.
bb.. It’s recommended that you select dimensions that are at a high level and denote activity types you
can strategize by. For example, channel, platform, strategy, market, and target audience.
690

=== PAGE 695 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
cc.. As you make your selections, the dimensions are placed in a hierarchy relative to one another. The
lowest level represents the level the budget is allocated for. Each level is a summation of the levels
below it, and the top level represents the sum.
dd.. To change the positions of the different levels in the hierarchy, drag a level and change the position
if needed.
ee.. Click Next.
44.. Define the measurement you use to visualize media cost in your workspace.
The Media Planning Center must know how you measure cost because all of its comparisons,
forecasts, and optimization calculations are cost-based.
These calculations treat your selected spend measurement as the historical ‘actual’ spend value, which
is aligned with your ‘planned’ spend for example, your budget.
You can use any measurement that you have in the system, such as mapped measurements,
calculated measurements, or even system-generated calculated measurements.
55.. Define which measurements (KPIs) you use to measure the success of your objectives.
691

=== PAGE 696 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
aa.. Select Single KPI, if you have one objective.
bb.. Select Multiple KPIs by Objective, if you have more than one objective and each one is measured
differently. Then, select the dimension that holds your objective values from the dropdown.
cc.. After selecting your dimension, all the objective values available for the selected dimension appear.
You now must define how you want to measure the objective. For example, if your objective is to
increase awareness, what measurement do you use to quantify awareness? Is it Impressions? Is it
Reach?
dd.. Click Next.
66.. Review the outline of your plan and when you’re done click Finish.
692

=== PAGE 697 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Underlying Entities in the Media Planning Center App
A maximum of 9 underlying entities are created with the Media Planning Center app.
•
1 Generic data stream
- The budgeting grid is turned into a report, which is uploaded into this data stream. Upon
installation, this report only has dimension values with ‘nulls’ for the budget figures. After
installation, every time the grid is updated with budget figures, a new report is created with the
latest figures, which replaces the previous matching data that was there before.
•
A maximum of 6 calculated dimensions
- The total number is per the number of selected dimensions (levels). Each of these calculated
dimensions (one for each budgeting level) harmonizes the budget data sourced from the generic
data stream. It correlates delivery data (historical actuals) sourced from the relevant data streams in
the workspace, and aligns figures from both sources by the same calculated dimension value.
•
2 Calculated measurements
- Calculated Cost Per Measure—Calculates the average cost per unit as per the relevant KPI defined
for each objective (if multiple KPIs are used). It divides the selected Spend measurement by the
relevant KPI measurement for each case.
- Calc Budget— Used to apply a LIFETIME aggregation to the mapped budget figure. This is required
because the mapped budget figure undergoes a certain calculation from within the mapping, so it
can apply to any date within the selected date range. This ensures that there’s always a figure, which
correctly shows the latest number that isn’t impacted by the mapping calculation.
Customize the Calculated Cost Per Measure calculated measurement if you want to apply your own logic
to this measurement. This measurement calculates cost per unit as a straightforward division of the total
cost by total KPI regardless of the cost type as can be seen in this example:
693

=== PAGE 698 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
If you prefer to calculate the average CPM and not the average cost of a single impression, change the
calculated measurement. For example, the average cost per 1,0000 impressions.
Run the Media Planning Center App
Use the Media Planning Center to create a strategic budget allocation plan.
The run mode of the app contains three tabs. Each tab allows you to plan your budget, optimize it and
then see a simulation of it. All the dimensions you selected during the app installation are used. You
can’t modify any dimensions at this stage. To do so, you must reinstall the app.
Plan Your Budget Allocation
After you install the app, you can see the outline, or grid, of your budgeting plan. This grid contains all
of the dimensions (in the hierarchy) alongside the timeframe, which was defined during the
installation process.
Analyze Your Budget By Dimension
Whenever you highlight an entity on the grid, an analytic display appears at the bottom presenting two
analytic types, Forecast, and YoY (Year-over-Year). The data that displays is per the level that you’re
currently highlighting, meaning if you drill up or down, the numbers change accordingly.
Optimize Your Budget With Analysis Tools
The Optimize section looks at different entities in terms of past performance and planned budget. It
then recommends how you can change your allocated budget to improve performance. It uses a
scatter plot quadrant display, which shows a selected KPI against a certain dimension associated with
the KPI in question.
Calculation of Optimization Recommendations
The Media Planning Center performs a calculation to determine the performance of a specific
dimension in terms of past performance and planned budget. It uses a scatter plot quadrant display to
perform this calculation.
694

=== PAGE 699 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Compare Multiple Versions of the Same Plan
Media Planning Center Scenario Planning allows you to compare multiple versions of the same plan,
by their projected KPIs.
Plan Your Budget Allocation
After you install the app, you can see the outline, or grid, of your budgeting plan. This grid contains all of
the dimensions (in the hierarchy) alongside the timeframe, which was defined during the installation
process.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To run Marketplace apps: Admins, Power Users, or Viewers
The budget is entered or changed at the lowest level only. You don’t have to fill out the entire plan at
once. You can fill it out at your own pace. Admins can upload a plan via the data stream’s log file and
then import it back into the data stream, if necessary.
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and then select the Media Planning Center app.
33.. To plan your budget, click the Plan tab.
44.. To view more information and to analyze a specific dimension, click a dimension. The Analyze tab
appears showing you a forecast of your future budget for this specific dimension. For more
information, see Analyze Your Budget by Dimension.
55.. To update the plan, make a change and then click Update.
Note Every time the plan is updated a report is generated based on the data and the old data is
replaced with the new data.
66.. To apply budget allocation to entire rows or columns, highlight the row or column in question and
695

=== PAGE 700 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
then copy and paste to the row or column you require.
You can either apply a hard-coded value, or apply an arithmetic expression to every existing cell value.
You can include expressions that multiply, divide, add, and subtract numbers.
77.. To import a cost measurement and use it as your budget, click Import and then select a cost
measurement and define the year and increment the retrieval starts from.
88.. To allocate the budget from the top level of your plan, right-click a row and select Split Budget.
aa.. Define how these top-level budgets trickle down to lower levels in the hierarchy. Use this option if
you prefer to define budgets at the top for an entity, such as channel. Avoid meticulous calculations
at the lower levels, for entities like campaign type, or strategy.
bb.. You can edit the entire budget, and define the percentages by which it carries through to the lower
levels.
cc.. Click Split when you’re done.
The budget is reallocated accordingly all the way down to the lowest level.
Analyze Your Budget By Dimension
Whenever you highlight an entity on the grid, an analytic display appears at the bottom presenting two
analytic types, Forecast, and YoY (Year-over-Year). The data that displays is per the level that you’re
currently highlighting, meaning if you drill up or down, the numbers change accordingly.
Forecast
The forecast section displays the effect that the budget has had on performance in the past, and it
predicts what the performance is likely to be in the future. This prediction is based on a computation of
past performance data and future budget. It offers a selection of forecasting methods from a dropdown
at the top right-hand side of the display:
To view an explanation of each forecasting method, click the icon beside the method itself.
The forecasting methods vary in complexity from simple to complex. The first two methods predict
696

=== PAGE 701 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
results even with relatively little data, however, the advanced methods require at least 10 historical
points of reference. If you use monthly increments, when using one of the advanced methods, you need
at least 10 months’ worth of past data.
Forecasting isn’t displayed as an absolute number, but rather as a range in which the true number
assuringly lies, for example, the confidence interval. The confidence interval range is always spread over
two standard deviations from the mean for all methods. In general, the more data you have and the
more accurate it is for the period scoped in the past, the more accurate the forecasting is likely to be.
Forecasting aligns your budgeting decisions with specific targets. For example, in cases where you must
achieve a certain number of conversions, but the selected forecasting method suggests that this target
will be missed. You can try to reallocate budget in-line with the forecasting at the expense of other
allocations that are less target sensitive.
YoY Analysis
This analysis shows you the previous year’s spend for the selected highlighted entity in the selected time
frame. This analysis can serve as a benchmark. If for example, you decide to spend 15% more this year
than you did the year before, you can immediately see how much you spent on every budgeted entity. It
also provides you with a seasonal trendline. You can see all of the previous year’s peaks and troughs,
which can be related to recurring events and are worth considering this time around.
Optimize Your Budget With Analysis Tools
The Optimize section looks at different entities in terms of past performance and planned budget. It
then recommends how you can change your allocated budget to improve performance. It uses a scatter
plot quadrant display, which shows a selected KPI against a certain dimension associated with the KPI in
question.
697

=== PAGE 702 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To run Marketplace apps: Admins, Power Users, or Viewers
Using EMI Einstein Marketing Insights, you get a further graphical display of the relativity analysis
between the entities in each category. For example, how the selected entity compares to all other
entities in its category in terms of cost-effectiveness and size of the budget.
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and then select the Media Planning Center app.
33.. Select the Optimize tab.
44.. If you define more than one scenario, change the scenario to see the recommendations for that
scenario and year.
55.. On the right-hand side view the recommendations. In this example, it’s recommended you spend less
on Display Ads since your planned budget was relatively high. Display Ads aren’t cost effective when
looking at spend and performance from the last 12 months.
66.. To view a further drill-down, scroll down the page.
You can use these recommendations to reallocate the budget. You can reduce the budget from an
entity that’s budgeted too high and increase it if it’s too low.
Note If you get the error “Single player left in the game” it’s advised that you drill down to a lower
granularity where there’s more than one entity.
Calculation of Optimization Recommendations
The Media Planning Center performs a calculation to determine the performance of a specific dimension
in terms of past performance and planned budget. It uses a scatter plot quadrant display to perform this
calculation.
At any particular point in time, the display shows a selected KPI against a certain dimension associated
698

=== PAGE 703 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
with the KPI in question and uses this logic.
•
The average cost per unit (based on the previous year’s activity) is calculated. The maximum result
achieved for this calculation makes the extremity value on the Y-axis with 0 being the lowest value.
•
At the same time, it also takes the highest budget value for the same entities and makes that the
extremity on the X-axis, with 0 being the minimum.
•
Any average cost per unit that’s below the median is considered ‘cost-effective’, and any that’s above is
considered too expensive. Likewise, any budget above the median is considered to be on the high
side, and any that’s below is considered to be on the low side.
699

=== PAGE 704 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Any entity that’s recognized as being cost-effective yet budgeted on the low side, is considered to be
badly budgeted. In this example, the entity has already proven itself to be cost-effective so it makes
sense to budget it relatively high. The Media Planning Center recommends considering spending more
on something that has a proven track record of being cost-effective, therefore the entity is moved to
the adjacent quadrant:
•
Similarly, any entity that’s recognized as being expensive yet budgeted on the high side, is also
considered to be badly budgeted. This entity has already proven itself to not be cost-effective, so it’s
recommended to budget it relatively low.
700

=== PAGE 705 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Here’s a summary of the sweet spots and danger zones:
Compare Multiple Versions of the Same Plan
Media Planning Center Scenario Planning allows you to compare multiple versions of the same plan, by
their projected KPIs.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To view installed Marketplace apps: Admin, Power User, or Viewer
With this view, identify the plan that’s likely to produce the best results for you. The existing scenarios for
budget allocations appear at the top of your screen allowing you to manage multiple versions of the
same plan from one instance. To see a demo, check out this video.
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and then select the Media Planning Center app.
33.. To view an existing plan, click a plan from the scenario panel(1).
701

=== PAGE 706 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
44.. To add a plan, click the + icon next to the scenario panel(2).
55.. To copy a plan from an existing scenario, select Copy from an Existing Scenario and then select a
scenario from the dropdown.
66.. To create a plan from scratch, select Start from Scratch.
77.. Click Add.
After you add a scenario, the original scenario becomes the ‘main’ scenario and is identified with a
crown icon. The main scenario acts as a focal point of comparison for additional scenarios created. For
example, adding or changing budgeting figures in a new scenario immediately presents the difference
between newly added budgets, and budgets that exist in the main scenario.
88.. To see a simulation for the selected scenarios, select the Simulate tab.
The simulation forecasts each plan’s KPI totals by the end of the plan’s defined timeframe.
99.. To reconfigure, which of the multiple scenarios is considered to be the main scenario, click the menu
icon, and then select Set as main scenario.
1100.. To change the forecasting method by which the KPIs are projected, on the left-hand side, select a
forecasting method.
702

=== PAGE 707 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
EMI Budget Allocator
The Media Planning Center EMI Budget allocator is a tool used to automatically produce a
recommended media budget scenario. Using AI-based forecasting and optimization algorithms, the EMI
Budget Allocator offers an optimal suggestion on how to split your allocated budget, across your
channels, platforms, and overall strategy.
The allocator considers past spending and performance data, the KPI you set as the goal of the
investments, and the current budget allocation from your main scenario. The EMI budget allocator takes
the existing budget and splits it in every possible way to produce an optimal budget allocation. It
considers the highest number of conversions predicted and the lowest spend.
EMI scenarios are created daily when sufficient data is available. You can manually run the EMI scenario
at any time. The latest EMI scenario is added to your app when available.
Here’s a video about the Media Planning Center EMI Budget allocator:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/LuJs3ATsFEbz1GEPfD47Lz?
Use The EMI Scenario Plan
The EMI scenario plan is a read-only plan, created automatically by the EMI Budget Allocator tool. The
latest scenario is displayed in the Media Planning Center app.
Set EMI Budget Constraints
From the Budget constraints tab, you can apply and remove optional settings. For example, turn off
the EMI Budget allocator, set limitations, or expand how the EMI budget allocator splits your budget.
This allows you to customize your budget and see more results.
703

=== PAGE 708 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Use The EMI Scenario Plan
The EMI scenario plan is a read-only plan, created automatically by the EMI Budget Allocator tool. The
latest scenario is displayed in the Media Planning Center app.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To view installed Marketplace apps: Admin, Power User, or Viewer
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and then select the Media Planning Center app.
33.. To manually run the EMI scenario, click Run EMI Budget Allocator in the Plan or Simulate tabs.
The new EMI scenario is added to your plan tab.
44.. To delete, rename or set the EMI scenario as your main plan, click More Options on the scenario and
select the option you want.
55.. To create a copy of the EMI scenario, click the plus icon next to the scenarios, click Copy From
Existing, and then select the EMI scenario.
66.. To compare the EMI scenario to other scenarios, click the Simulate tab.
Set EMI Budget Constraints
From the Budget constraints tab, you can apply and remove optional settings. For example, turn off the
EMI Budget allocator, set limitations, or expand how the EMI budget allocator splits your budget. This
allows you to customize your budget and see more results.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To view installed Marketplace apps: Admin, Power User, or Viewer
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and then select the Media Planning Center app.
33.. Click Settings and then select Budget Constraints.
44.. To stop using the EMI Budget Allocator, toggle off EMI Budget Allocator.
The options display your hierarchy levels from the top to the bottom of the hierarchy. For example, if
Channel is at the top of your hierarchy, Platforms is under it, and at the bottom is Strategy.
55.. Determine your budget shift.
66.. Select the level of hierarchy in which you would like to limit budget shifting.
Multi-Touch Attribution App
Discover which first-party marketing touchpoints led to conversions or brought in the highest revenue
according to attribution models.
704

=== PAGE 709 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Watch this video about the Multi-Touch Attribution app:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/WSFimzJ2L6wkkKRgsiXsLj
Set Up the Multi-Touch Attribution App
The Multi-Touch Attribution app provides an analysis of first-party marketing touchpoint data. Setting
up the app involves ingesting first-party user-level data into the Granular Data Center and defining
touchpoints, conversions, and attribution models. The fields that appear during setup are derived
from Granular Data Centers. Changes to data must be done in the Granular Data Center.
Run the Multi-Touch Attribution App
Run the Multi-Touch Attribution app to see which first-party marketing touchpoints led to conversions
or brought in the highest revenue according to the attribution model. Each attribution model selected
during setup has its own dashboard page.
Set Up the Multi-Touch Attribution App
The Multi-Touch Attribution app provides an analysis of first-party marketing touchpoint data. Setting up
the app involves ingesting first-party user-level data into the Granular Data Center and defining
touchpoints, conversions, and attribution models. The fields that appear during setup are derived from
Granular Data Centers. Changes to data must be done in the Granular Data Center.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To install Marketplace apps Admin
To install the Multi-Touch Attribution app requires:
•
Granular Data Center add-on enabled in your workspace
•
First-party data ingested and harmonized in the Granular Data Center
•
First-party data with user-level identifiers across multiple channels
11.. Install the Multi-Touch Attribution app.
aa.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
bb.. Select the app, and click Get it Now.
If the Granular Data Center isn’t enabled in your workspace, you can’t install this app. Contact a
Marketing Cloud Intelligence representative for more information.
22.. Define marketing touchpoints. A marketing touchpoint is the method used to reach an audience, for
example, email or SMS. Define at least two touchpoints.
aa.. Enter the touchpoint name, for example, Email.
bb.. Select the Granular Data Center table that contains the email events for the touchpoint. For
example, email_touchpoint_table.
cc.. Select the column name that represents the user ID, for example, user_ID.
dd.. Select the column name that represents the time and date that the event occurred, for example,
timestamp.
ee.. Click Save Touchpoint. The touchpoint appears on the left side under Marketing Touchpoints.
ff.. Define the next touchpoint using the same steps.
705

=== PAGE 710 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
gg.. When done, click Next.
33.. Add breakdowns. Use a breakdown to segment data to provide broader insights. For example, break
down by campaign or device. (This step is optional but highly recommended. If you don’t define
breakdowns, some widgets remain blank on your pre-built dashboard.) To skip this step, click Skip.
aa.. Click Create New Breakdown.
bb.. Select the type.
cc.. Select the value for each touchpoint.
dd.. Click Next.
44.. Define conversions. A conversion is the outcome of the touchpoint that you’re trying to optimize. You
can add multiple conversion events in one app instance. For example, the user signed up for your
community or an item was purchased.
aa.. Enter the name of conversion, for example, purchase.
bb.. Select the Granular Data Center table you want to connect to, for example, conversions_table.
cc.. Select the column name from the selected table that represents the user ID, for example, user_ID.
dd.. Select the column name that represents the date for the conversion, for example, purchase_date.
ee.. (Optional) If the conversion can be represented by revenue, enter a Key Performance Indicator for
the conversion. If you’re not looking for insights of revenue, you don’t have to define a KPI. For
example, you only want to expand your end-user numbers even if no purchases are made.
ff.. Click Save Event. To add another conversion event, repeat the above steps. The conversion appears
on the left side under Conversion Events.
gg.. Click Next.
55.. Add attribution models.
An attribution model is a set of rules that determines how credits are assigned to touchpoints in a
conversion path. Depending on the model, weights are assigned to the various events in the path. For
example, this path: first Email, second SMS, and third Display. Four attribution models are available.
You can also create a custom model to meet specific business needs.
Gives 100% credit to the first touchpoint seen in
First Touch
the attribution lookback window.
Gives 100% credit to the touchpoint occurring
Last Touch
most recently before conversion.
Gives equal credit to every touchpoint seen
Linear Touch
leading up to a conversion.
Goes according to an exponential decay with a
custom half-life parameter. The default is 7 days.
The weight of each channel depends on the
Time Decay
amount of time that passed between the
touchpoint initiation and the eventual
conversion.
aa.. Select the attribution models. A dashboard page is created for each attribution model that you
choose.
bb.. To determine the number of days from when a conversion occurred to count the marketing event,
modify the Lookback Window. For example, you want to only include marketing events (such as
706

=== PAGE 711 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
emails) that were sent a maximum of 30 days before the conversion occurred.
66.. To complete the installation, click Install.
Installing the Multi-Touch Attribution app creates a Liteconnect Data stream.
Run the Multi-Touch Attribution App
Run the Multi-Touch Attribution app to see which first-party marketing touchpoints led to conversions or
brought in the highest revenue according to the attribution model. Each attribution model selected
during setup has its own dashboard page.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To run Marketplace apps Admins, Power Users, or Viewers
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and then select the Multi-Touch Attribution app.
33.. Filter the app page by date.
44.. View the data.
•
Conversion data
- Conversions–The total conversions for the time period. A conversion is an event that took place as a
result of a touchpoint event.
- Revenue–The total revenue from the conversion for the time period. (If a revenue KPI doesn’t exist,
no data appears here.)
- Avg Customer Journey–The average time it took for all customers from the first touchpoint to the
conversion.
- Avg Events Until Conversion–The average number of events that took place from the touchpoint to
the conversion.
- Conversion Number and Sum of Revenue Over Time–A comparison between the total conversions
and sum of revenue over time, which helps you identify the dates when your revenue increased or
decreased.
•
Touchpoint data
- Touchpoint name–Select a touchpoint to drill down to view data.
- Breakdown–Select a breakdown you defined during setup. For example, if you defined a
breakdown for campaign, it appears here and you can then select a specific campaign you want to
focus on.
- Number of Conversions Over Touchpoints–A comparison between the number of conversions per
touchpoint.
- Sum of Revenue Over Touchpoints–The sum of revenue per touchpoint.
•
Breakdown data
- Breakdown selection–Select a breakdown to drill down to view specific data. Note: If no
breakdowns were defined during setup, this section appears with no data.
- Number of Conversions Over Breakdown–The number of conversions for the breakdown that you
selected.
- Sum of Revenue Over Breakdowns–The revenue for the breakdown.
707

=== PAGE 712 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
- Sum of Revenue–A comparison between the different touchpoints and breakdowns according to
the total revenue. For example, you can see which campaigns had the highest revenue via the Email
touchpoint and which had the highest revenue for the SMS touchpoint.
- Top 10 Breakdowns–Displays the top 10 breakdowns.
Salesforce Marketing Cloud Email App
The Salesforce Marketing Cloud Email app pulls data from both Marketing Cloud Email Studio and
Journey Builder. The app provides enhanced analytics, identifies and classifies top KPIs, and tracks the
progress of data points.
Here’s a video about utilizing the Marketing Cloud Email app:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/eCiVRZnq2a57HehjUiaZho?
And here’s a video about installing the Marketing Cloud Email app:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/jaaCsAdmv3zz5wWBnETrUX?
Set Up the Salesforce Marketing Cloud Email App
The Salesforce Marketing Cloud Email app provides an analysis of Marketing Cloud Email Studio and
Journey Builder data. Setting up the app involves connecting a Marketing Cloud account, configuring
data sets, and setting goals.
Run the Salesforce Marketing Cloud Email App
Use the Salesforce Marketing Cloud Email app to view email delivery data, user engagement, open
rates, and more.
Set Up the Salesforce Marketing Cloud Email App
The Salesforce Marketing Cloud Email app provides an analysis of Marketing Cloud Email Studio and
Journey Builder data. Setting up the app involves connecting a Marketing Cloud account, configuring
data sets, and setting goals.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To install Marketplace apps Admin
To install the Salesforce Marketing Cloud Email app, you need a Marketing Cloud username and
password, and your Marketing Cloud account must have API access.
11.. Install the Salesforce Marketing Cloud Email app.
aa.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
bb.. Select the app, and click Get it Now.
22.. Connect your Marketing Cloud account.
aa.. Select an existing account or create one.
bb.. Click Next.
708

=== PAGE 713 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
33.. Configure your datasets.
aa.. Select the Marketing Cloud datasets. Email is included by default, but it can’t be edited.
bb.. Select the business units you want to grab data for.
cc.. To display data at an hourly level rather than daily, select Include hourly breakdown. Turning this
option on increases row count.
dd.. To view a breakdown per domain, select Include domain breakdown.
ee.. Click Next.
44.. Set up goals to determine what qualifies as a positive result for each KPI according to your business
logic. For example, if a good delivery rate in your organization is 90%, set the delivery rate to over
90% by entering a percentage or using the scroll bar.
55.. To complete the installation, click Done.
Installing the Salesforce Marketing Cloud Email app creates these underlying entities.
•
Data streams
•
Goals - 4 goals are created based on the KPIs.
•
Calculated dimensions
•
Pivot table
Run the Salesforce Marketing Cloud Email App
Use the Salesforce Marketing Cloud Email app to view email delivery data, user engagement, open rates,
and more.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To run Marketplace apps Admins, Power Users, or Viewers
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and then select the Salesforce Marketing Cloud Email app.
33.. Toggle between the Journey Email and Email Studio views. If no journey data is found, the Journey
Email tab isn’t shown.
44.. Filter the page by campaign and business unit. View the Delivery Over Time section to see email
activity during the selected time period.
Changing the range places bars on the last third of the entire scope. For example, if you select 90 days,
the bar chart displays data for the last month. If you select 1 year, the bar chart displays the last 4
months of data.
Note To receive an email each time a delivery rate is lower than the business goals that you
defined in the app, select Notify me via email. Admins can edit the action and action rule that’s
created and change the subscriber’s email address.
55.. In the Interactive Engagement Rates Analysis section identify best-performing entities and view email
performance based on defined benchmarks.
A green icon indicates that the goal was reached. Toggle the measurements to drill down. For
example, view the best-performing journey according to open rate.
709

=== PAGE 714 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Search Keyword Insights App
Connect your organic and paid search data to view overall search performance and keyword insights.
Automatically identify what is and isn’t covered by your paid campaigns and use that information in
future campaigns to drive growth.
Set Up the Search Keyword Insights App
To optimize keywords based on their organic insights, the Search Keyword Insights app shows which
organic search terms are included in paid keywords and which aren’t. Setting up the app involves
connecting your SEO and SEM data and applying filters.
Run the Search Keyword Insights App
Installing the Search Keyword Insights app creates an app page that shows all search terms that
weren’t covered by your SEM. It also shows organic and paid data side by side so that you can compare
their performance.
Set Up the Search Keyword Insights App
To optimize keywords based on their organic insights, the Search Keyword Insights app shows which
organic search terms are included in paid keywords and which aren’t. Setting up the app involves
connecting your SEO and SEM data and applying filters.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To install Marketplace apps Admin
To install the Search Keyword Insights app, you need:
•
For the organic side (SEO) — Google Search Console data stream with query level data. You can also
add this data stream via the app.
Note If the data stream doesn’t have query level data, Marketing Cloud Intelligence automatically
reprocesses it during the installation so it includes query level data.
•
For the paid side (SEM) — Any keyword-level data, including match type. Common supported sources
include Google Ads, Google Search 360, and TotalConnect.
11.. Install the Search Keyword Insights app.
aa.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
bb.. Select the app, and then click Get it Now.
cc.. To begin, click Start.
22.. Connect your SEO data from Google Search Console. This data is your organic data.
aa.. To create a data stream, click Connect a new stream. If you don’t have any existing Google Search
Console data streams, then you can only create a data stream.
bb.. To connect to an existing data stream, click Connect existing streams.
Note
••
If the data stream doesn’t have query level data, the data stream is reprocessed
710

=== PAGE 715 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
automatically for you.
••
By default, the app takes the full date range that exists in the chosen data stream up to 2
years.
cc.. Click Next.
33.. Connect your SEM data.
aa.. By default, the system recognizes mapped fields and shows them because all data that is mapped to
the Search Keywords data stream type appears as SEM data. These data sources are pulled:
TotalConnect, Bing Ads, Google Adwords, and Google DS (Google Search 360). If you have a non-
supported data source, such as Pinterest Ads, SEM data isn’t pulled. There are nine available fields.
Six are mandatory and three are optional.
bb.. To change a field, click the down arrow, and then select another field. Note: If you add more fields,
additional insights are added in the run mode. However, no extra rows are added.
cc.. To apply a filter to reduce the data that’s being pulled, click Filters. For example, if you have Bing
and Google Ads as paid sources and you don’t want to add Bing’s data to the app, create a filter by
choosing a source that contains the word Google.
44.. To complete the installation, click Finish.
Installing the Search Keyword Insights app creates these entities:
•
Data Streams
•
Generic Data Streams
•
Calculated Measurements
•
Calculated Dimensions
•
Data Fusion
Run the Search Keyword Insights App
Installing the Search Keyword Insights app creates an app page that shows all search terms that weren’t
covered by your SEM. It also shows organic and paid data side by side so that you can compare their
performance.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To view Marketplace apps Admin, Power User, or Viewer
This app uses a predefined Marketing Cloud Intelligence calculated measurement called Magic. You can
sort your results using Magic in a few different places in run mode. Magic identifies which search terms
have a high probability of clicks per their position. The magic formula is based on these assumptions:
•
A position higher than 5 is considered bad and has a lower chance of getting clicks.
•
Click Through Rate (CTR) is a personal metric, so it’s calculated differently for each customer. A good
CTR is higher than the average CTR for the specific client.
Typically Magic performs this calculation: If the term has a bad position but a high CTR, the position, the
CTR, and a ratio of the impressions (to normalize) are multiplied to produce a score.
711

=== PAGE 716 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and then select the Search Keyword Insights app.
33.. Filter the app page by a specific measurement or by Magic and the date.
44.. Search for terms in the Search bar.
55.. Change the view of the app page from list to table view.
66.. Add or remove columns in the tables, but only in the Organic and Paid Insights tab.
77.. For more insights, click these tabs:
Potential Paid Coverage
View all search terms that weren’t covered by your SEM, which means
Opportunities
there was no match between the search term and your paid
keywords.
••
By default, the data is in the form of a word cloud. The terms with
the highest results appear and the rest of the terms are scattered
above the term. The terms are in different colors and sizes based
on their score. If you hover over a term, the data appears below the
word cloud.
••
By default, the list is sorted by Magic. If you search for a specific
value, the results are updated with the top 50 results based on
Magic’s score or another measurement.
Organic and Paid Insights
View your organic and paid data side by side to compare their
performance. An AI algorithm calculates the top keywords that are
the closest to each search term.
••
The SEO data appears on the left and the SEM data appears on the
right. You can see if you created keywords for each common search
term, how many were created, and which keywords covered your
search terms.
••
To change the data displayed, use the filters All, Above Avg, and
Below Avg.
••
Add or remove columns to emphasize important aspects for each
stakeholder. For example, show the business metric as spend and
conversion rate for executive managers. Show more tactical metrics
such as CTR, clicks, and impressions for SEM managers.
Organic Search Terms
View the top 10 search terms that encountered a change during a
Trends (Top 10)
specific period. For example, a change refers to an increase or
decrease in impressions from last week to this week or last month to
this month. Apply these filters:
••
Increase or Decrease - Which terms had an increase or decrease.
All search terms that appear in red decreased in the measurement
you filtered by during this period.
712

=== PAGE 717 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
••
No Paid Coverage or Paid Coverage - Which terms were or weren’t
covered by your SEM or not covered during this period. For
example, filter the insights to include only terms that aren’t covered
by any of your paid keywords.
••
MoM or WoW - You can compare by month to month or week to
week. The weekly period is defined as Sunday to Sunday. So if you
have partial data, the system finds a complete period to use.
••
Measurement - Choose which measurement method you want to
see a change for during the comparison.
Watch this video about the Search Keyword Insights app:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/z8VGjivfV7VbSKRoTjZ4xF?
Social Intelligence App
See how your brand compares to your competitors’ brands by looking at follower growth, post patterns,
overall messaging, and preconfigured AI insights.
Watch this video about utilizing the social intelligence app:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/MfioYy28gcB9UWi2K7wBnj?
Watch this video about installing the social intelligence app:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/BpFyJc56rmqa9Cpuv4wDdv?
Set Up the Social Intelligence App
The Social Intelligence app provides an analysis of social competitive data from Twitter, Facebook,
Instagram, and YouTube. Setting up the app involves connecting your brand and competitor data.
Run the Social Intelligence App
Installing the Social Intelligence app creates an app page that shows all the social competitive data
gathered during configuration.
Set Up the Social Intelligence App
The Social Intelligence app provides an analysis of social competitive data from Twitter, Facebook,
Instagram, and YouTube. Setting up the app involves connecting your brand and competitor data.
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To install Marketplace apps Admin
To install the Social Intelligence app you need a username and password for the platform you want to
pull data for. You can use your own login details because you’re pulling public data. However, each
platform works a bit differently, so keep these considerations in mind:
713

=== PAGE 718 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
•
Twitter — You can log into any Twitter account.
•
Facebook — Your user must have permissions to manage at least one Facebook page.
•
YouTube — Your user must be associated with a channel.
•
Instagram — You must have a valid Facebook username and password that are connected to a
Facebook page linked to an Instagram business account.
11.. Install the Social Intelligence app.
aa.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
bb.. Select the app, and click Get it Now.
22.. Authenticate social networks.
aa.. Connect to the social networks you need. Select an existing account or create one. If needed, you
can connect to all networks.
bb.. Click Save & Continue.
33.. Define your brand. To avoid displaying irrelevant data, we recommend that you look at the social
network’s site and find the relevant page first. When searching for social pages, select that page here.
aa.. Enter a keyword in the Search box.
If you’re searching for a page in Instagram, make sure that you enter the full business name,
otherwise the page can’t be found. All relevant pages appear grouped by the different social
networks.
bb.. Select the relevant pages. The Brand Name card at the top of the page appears with the name of
the brand that you selected. Each time a page is added, it’s also added to the relevant social
network.
cc.. To remove a page, hover over it and click Delete.
dd.. To view the actual page, click the link.
ee.. Click Save & Continue.
44.. Define competitors. You can define up to four different competitors.
aa.. Enter a keyword in the Search box.
bb.. Select the relevant pages.
The Competitor Name card appears with the brand that you selected. And each time a page is
added, it’s added to the relevant social network.
cc.. To define the brand of the next competitor, click the next card and repeat the previous steps.
55.. Click Finish Setup to complete the installation.
Installing the Social Intelligence app creates these underlying entities:
•
Data Streams - A data stream is created for each network and for each competitor. To help you
understand what you’re looking at, a naming convention is used: “name of company_SCA_App
ID_Platform”. For example, “Nirvana_SCA_1873_Platform”.
•
Calculated Dimensions
•
Calculated Measurements
Run the Social Intelligence App
Installing the Social Intelligence app creates an app page that shows all the social competitive data
gathered during configuration.
714

=== PAGE 719 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
REQUIRED USER ROLE
To view Marketplace apps Admin, Power User, or Viewer
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and then select the Social Intelligence app.
33.. Filter the app page by date, competitors, and social networks.
To view the different sections, scroll up or down or use the bookmarks on the left-hand side of the page.
•
You Vs Competitors — Get overall social presence by looking at your score. The score is calculated by
comparing the number of likes per brand across each social network. The number of followers also
plays a role, adding more weight to the social network with more followers. For example, if most
followers are on Facebook, likes on Facebook have more weight on the overall score.
•
Follower Growth — View how well your follower base is growing compared to your competitor’s. A
dynamic graph is used to show this information by looking at how your follower growth over time. This
graph changes as the app gathers more data. After there’s enough data, you can see the growth rate
for you and your competitors. Note: You can only see data from the date of installation. You can’t view
prior data.
•
Frequency — Determine how frequently to post per social network. You can customize these
calculations using calculated measurements. For example, you can adjust the industry value like in the
example to change the numbers used for the general benchmark column.
•
Post Timing — Get insights about the best day of the week or time of day to post to your social
networks. You get a score based on a number of factors and see the times with the highest number of
highly rated posts.
•
Top Posts — Shows which posts were the most successful per social network according to the number
of likes and shares and, if available comments.
•
Messaging — View how each brand uses different messaging tactics. Scan posts and find the terms or
hashtags that are used the most. See where messages overlap, which means more than one company
uses the same term. Determine which terms to use and which make your marketing tactics more
unique.
- Each competitor appears on its own in a different location on the page.
- If the term is connected to more than one competitor, the term appears closest to the competitor
that uses it the most.
- If you hover over a term, you can see if another competitor uses the term.
- The colors used represent the uniqueness of the words. Font size also plays a role. Terms that
appear with a larger font are used more often per competitor.
Workspace Health Monitoring App
The Workspace Health Monitoring app lets you monitor and handle any processing issues in your
Marketing Cloud Intelligence workspace. This app provides a simple, centralized view of your automatic
processes running in Marketing Cloud Intelligence. View failed reports, actions, data streams, and
workflows, and fix entities by logging a ticket or notifying a colleague about outstanding issues.
715

=== PAGE 720 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Note This app is only available for Marketing Cloud Intelligence Admins. Power users and viewers
can’t access this app.
Watch this video for more information about the Workspace Health Monitoring app:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/
rpweKtR5m3LoLfrwaCvWhb?
Install the Workspace Health Monitoring App
The Workspace Health Monitoring app provides an overall view of the health of your workspace. View
the status of all your data streams, reports, actions, and workflows. If a process fails, take immediate
action to fix the failed entity. No setup is required with this app—install it and the app is ready for use.
Run the Workspace Health Monitoring App
Get an overall view of your workspace entities with the Workspace Health Monitoring app. View all
successful and failed data streams, reports, actions, and workflows. Open an entity to view more
details, and then fix an issue by opening a ticket or by sending an email to a colleague informing them
of the issue.
Configure the Workspace Health Monitoring App
You can customize the information that you display for each entity in the Workspace Health
Monitoring app. For example, you can change the tolerance to set the urgency level and register to a
daily email service.
Install the Workspace Health Monitoring App
The Workspace Health Monitoring app provides an overall view of the health of your workspace. View the
status of all your data streams, reports, actions, and workflows. If a process fails, take immediate action
to fix the failed entity. No setup is required with this app—install it and the app is ready for use.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To install Marketplace apps: Admin
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Select the app, and then click Get it Now.
The app is ready for use immediately after installation.
Watch this video for more information about the Workspace Health Monitoring app:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/P6YhuxYWoszSTQKkDPEZph?
Run the Workspace Health Monitoring App
Get an overall view of your workspace entities with the Workspace Health Monitoring app. View all
716

=== PAGE 721 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
successful and failed data streams, reports, actions, and workflows. Open an entity to view more details,
and then fix an issue by opening a ticket or by sending an email to a colleague informing them of the
issue.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To run the Workspace Health Monitoring app Admin
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and then select the Workspace Health Monitoring app. The main page
shows an overview of your workspace’s health.
33.. To view more details about a specific entity, such as data streams, select the tabs at the top of the
page, or click Take Action.
The content changes per entity type, so not all filters and options are available for each tab.
44.. Group the items by data source or error, and filter by different statuses, such as enabled or disabled.
55.. Filter by the type of error:
••
Failure: The process failed and the entity wasn’t created.
••
Inspect: The process didn’t work as expected. For example, a data stream was processed
successfully but didn’t log any new data.
66.. Click the failed entity, and view more details.
••
Edit: Edit the entity. For example, if you’re viewing a data stream, this option takes you to the data
stream to fix it.
••
Disable: Disable the entity and prevent it from running.
••
Re-Process: Reprocess the entity.
••
Open Ticket: Create a ticket, and send it directly to the Marketing Cloud Intelligence support team.
••
Send Email: Create and send an email to inform another admin in your account. Your local email
provider opens up automatically.
Here’s a video about the Workspace Health Monitoring app “Inspect” Entities:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/rpweKtR5m3LoLfrwaCvWhb
Configure the Workspace Health Monitoring App
You can customize the information that you display for each entity in the Workspace Health Monitoring
app. For example, you can change the tolerance to set the urgency level and register to a daily email
service.
717

=== PAGE 722 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure the Workspace Health Monitoring Admin
app
11.. In Marketing Cloud Intelligence, on the Marketplace tab, select Apps.
22.. Click Installed Solutions, and then select the Workspace Health Monitoring app.
33.. Click the Settings icon on each entity card.
44.. Set the tolerance.
Sensitive: The card appears in red on the main overview and the top filter even if only one failure
occurs.
Proportional: The card appears in red if most items failed. If not, it appears in yellow or green.
55.. To subscribe users to a daily email status, select Subscribe to daily status emails, and then enter the
email addresses.
66.. Save your work.
Watch this video for more information about configuring the Workspace Health Monitoring app:
Watch the video: https://salesforce.vidyard.com/watch/26im4QvzLYKba4Gkf3eRRf?
Manage an Installed App
The Installed Solutions page displays all of the apps you have installed to your workspace. From here you
can access and manage all of your installed apps, including sharing, uninstalling, and troubleshooting.
Admin users can view and manage installed apps and connectors. All other roles can only view installed
apps.
Create Another Instance of an App
Create another instance of an app when you want to install the same app twice, with two
configurations for two different business units. This prevents you from having to go back to the
Marketplace to search for and install the app.
Sharing Apps
Share an app from the Installed Solutions page to enable other people to use the apps installed on
your workspace.
Add App Pages to Collections
An app page displays a view of an app instance without overriding the app instance’s settings. The
name of the app appears as the app’s instance name and can’t be modified. If you want to change the
718

=== PAGE 723 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
name, go to the app page in the collection. If you must add another app page based on the same
instance to the same collection, this can be done in the collection as well.
Uninstall an App
If for some reason you no longer need an app and you want to remove it, you can use the uninstall
option.
Create Another Instance of an App
Create another instance of an app when you want to install the same app twice, with two configurations
for two different business units. This prevents you from having to go back to the Marketplace to search
for and install the app.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create another instance of an app: Admin
An app instance creates the structure of the app, without any underlying entities. You still must configure
the app.
11.. Access the Marketplace main page from the Marketplace tab in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
22.. Click Go to Installed Solutions.
33.. On the tile of the app you want to create another instance for, click Settings, and then select Create
Another.
Sharing Apps
Share an app from the Installed Solutions page to enable other people to use the apps installed on your
workspace.
Share an Installed App
Share installed apps to enable other user roles within your workspace to use the app. You can share
apps only with users who have access to your workspace. All admins of the workspace automatically
see all of the apps.
Share a Live App Externally
Create an external link to your app and share it with others outside of the Marketing Cloud Intelligence
platform.
Share an Offline Version of the App
Use the export option to share an offline version of the app with other users. You can either export the
app instance into a PDF format, or create a scheduled export and define a report. Apps can be shared
either within the app itself, or in the Installed Solutions page.
719

=== PAGE 724 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Share an Installed App
Share installed apps to enable other user roles within your workspace to use the app. You can share apps
only with users who have access to your workspace. All admins of the workspace automatically see all of
the apps.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To share installed apps in Marketing Cloud Admins
Intelligence:
11.. Access the Marketplace main page from the Marketplace tab in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
22.. Click Go to Installed Solutions.
33.. From the app you want to share, click Share.
All users who have access to the workspace appear in the list. You can search for a specific user, share
with all, or select a specific user from the list.
44.. Select the option you require and click Share.
Share a Live App Externally
Create an external link to your app and share it with others outside of the Marketing Cloud Intelligence
platform.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To share an app externally: Admins
Note Note: You still need to authenticate your Marketing Cloud Intelligence account to open the
app.
11.. Access the Marketplace main page from the Marketplace tab in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
22.. Click Go to Installed Solutions.
33.. From the app you want to share, click Share.
44.. From the Shared With dropdown, click Logged Users.
55.. To share an external link, in the Share Link, copy the shareable link.
66.. To share an embedded code, in the Embed Code, copy the code.
77.. Close the dialog when you’re done.
Share an Offline Version of the App
Use the export option to share an offline version of the app with other users. You can either export the
app instance into a PDF format, or create a scheduled export and define a report. Apps can be shared
720

=== PAGE 725 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
either within the app itself, or in the Installed Solutions page.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To share an offline version of an app: Admin and Power User
Note This feature is only available in apps that enable it, so you may not see this in your app.
11.. Access the Marketplace main page from the Marketplace tab in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
22.. To share an app directly within an app instance, select the app and then click Options.
33.. To export a PDF version of the app, select Export.
44.. To create a report with a defined schedule, select Schedule Export.
You're redirected to the Reports page where you can define a schedule. For more information, see
Configure Report Scheduling and Delivery.
55.. In the Configuration area, the App Instance is automatically defined. You can select a different one if
needed.
Add App Pages to Collections
An app page displays a view of an app instance without overriding the app instance’s settings. The name
of the app appears as the app’s instance name and can’t be modified. If you want to change the name,
go to the app page in the collection. If you must add another app page based on the same instance to
the same collection, this can be done in the collection as well.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To add an app page to a collection: Admin and Power User
Note Admins can add all apps that are in their account to collections. Power users can add any apps
that were shared with them, while viewers can’t see this option at all.
11.. Access the Marketplace main page from the Marketplace tab in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
22.. Click Go to Installed Solutions.
33.. On the tile of the app you want to add to a collection, click Settings, and then select Manage App in
Collections.
44.. To add the app to a collection, click Add to collection.
55.. To select the collection, click the blue plus sign.
66.. The app page can be added to more than one collection.
77.. Save your work.
721

=== PAGE 726 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Uninstall an App
If for some reason you no longer need an app and you want to remove it, you can use the uninstall
option.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To uninstall an app: Admin
When uninstalling you must decide what to do with the app’s underlying entities. You can either keep
them or delete them. Before you decide, keep this in mind.
•
If you chose to delete underlying entities, if any of the underlying entities are in use, they aren’t
deleted.
•
If you decide to keep underlying entities they remain in the system, but they aren’t connected to any
app.
•
All underlying entities created by apps contain the app name and version in the entity name.
11.. Access the Marketplace main page from the Marketplace tab in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
22.. Click Go to Installed Solutions.
33.. Select the tile of the app you’re uninstalling.
44.. Click the options button and then select Uninstall.
55.. Select if you want to delete or keep the underlying entities.
66.. Click Uninstall.
Underlying Entities in Marketplace Apps
Underlying entities are created behind the scenes after Marketplace apps install. They enable the app to
function properly. Each app has its own set or combination of underlying entities depending on the app’s
purpose and functionality.
You can edit these entities outside of the app to change the app’s behavior. These are the types of
underlying entities available:
•
Data streams
•
Filtered measurements
•
Calculated measurements
•
Calculated dimensions
•
Insights bots
•
Goals
•
Data source authentications
It’s important to mention that underlying entities can’t be deleted as they’re vital for the app’s behavior. If
722

=== PAGE 727 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
for some reason you must delete an underlying entity then you must uninstall the app.
Identifying Underlying Entities
You can differentiate between different types of entities, by looking at the naming convention of the
entity.
Editing Underlying Entities
Underlying Entities are editable so that you can apply your own business logic to the app’s entities.
Identifying Underlying Entities
You can differentiate between different types of entities, by looking at the naming convention of the
entity.
For example, here you can see 5 calculated dimensions were created for this app.
The number appearing after the underscore in the entity is the installation ID of the related app.
If you open an installed app, for example, Social Intelligence, you can see this number in the URL of the
related app.
You can also use this number to search for all the underlying entities related to a specific app. For
example, if you want to find the calculated measurements that were created for app ID 1873, filter the
name to 1873 and then search for all the calculated measurements.
Editing Underlying Entities
Underlying Entities are editable so that you can apply your own business logic to the app’s entities.
Note Any change you make to an app’s underlying entity can affect its functionality. It’s
recommended that you first make a copy of the entity before changing it.
For example, if you’re using the Lead Generation app and you want to change the dates that are used in
the Cohort table to a date that suits you, edit the Lead Time to Convert calculated dimension.
If you’re using the Social Intelligence app and you want to change the General Benchmark value for post
frequency, adjust the ‘Industry Value’ of the calculated measurement General Benchmark.
723

=== PAGE 728 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Understanding App Installations
What happens when Marketplace apps are installed? What determines whether an app installs
successfully or fails? Is there anything I can do to make sure the app installs successfully? If an app fails
during an installation, is there a way to see why and even fix it? These are only some questions you’re
probably asking yourself when installing Marketplace apps. This section explains how to troubleshoot
and fix errors that occur when installing apps.
App Installation Statuses
When an app starts to install, two synchronous steps occur during installation. These steps affect the
installation status of the app.
Failed Apps and Their Implications
Apps don’t always install successfully. Sometimes there’s an issue with the app, or the processing of
the underlying entities. For example, the provider timed out, the app installation timed out before the
underlying entities were processed, or even due to invalid mapping.
Fix a Failed App
If an app fails during installation you can explore and find out why this happened. You can see which
processes must be fixed to install the app, and those that can be fixed at a later date.
App Installation Statuses
When an app starts to install, two synchronous steps occur during installation. These steps affect the
installation status of the app.
•
All underlying entities are created.
•
Underlying entities that require processing are processed (for example data streams and insights bots).
The successful installation of an app depends on the successful completion of the above two processes.
There are three possible statuses of an app’s installation.
•
Successful
•
Draft
•
Failed
This table summarizes of all the different statuses and the different stages of underlying entity creation.
App Status Description Entities are Entities are App Ready for Use
Created Processed
Success The app was
installed
successfully
724

=== PAGE 729 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
App Status Description Entities are Entities are App Ready for Use
Created Processed
Draft User left the
installation
process before it
Some or all Never initiated
completed
entities were
created
Failed The app wasn’t
installed
successfully
Failed Apps and Their Implications
Apps don’t always install successfully. Sometimes there’s an issue with the app, or the processing of the
underlying entities. For example, the provider timed out, the app installation timed out before the
underlying entities were processed, or even due to invalid mapping.
What happens, if for example, the app installation timed out, but the data streams are still processing?
Tolerance determines how the system tolerates failed processes of underlying entities that require
processing. Currently, this refers to data streams and insight bots.
There are three levels of tolerances:
•
None: Not a single processing failure is tolerated.
•
All: All processing failures are tolerated.
•
Any: At least one successful processing is tolerated.
The level of tolerance can be different per underlying entity. For example, in certain apps, data streams
have a tolerance level set to None. If the data stream fails during installation, the app doesn’t install
successfully. If insight bots have a tolerance level set to All and they fail during installation, the app
installs successfully.
Each app has different tolerance levels for the same underlying entity type. For example, in the Lead
Generation app, there are two data stream types, one for Leads and one for Opportunities. The Leads
data stream type has a level of tolerance set to None. If the Leads data stream fails during installation the
app doesn’t install successfully. The Opportunities data stream has a level of tolerance set to All. If the
Opportunities data stream fails during installation, the app doesn't install successfully. To understand this
better, if the Opportunities data stream type fails, as long as the Leads data stream type is successful, the
Lead Generation app installs successfully.
Fix a Failed App
If an app fails during installation you can explore and find out why this happened. You can see which
725

=== PAGE 730 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
processes must be fixed to install the app, and those that can be fixed at a later date.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To fix a failed app: Admin
To help you understand the different failed processes and which must be fixed, these sections are
available:
•
Red - (Required Fixes) Fixes are required in order to install the app successfully.
•
Orange - (Recommended Fixes) It’s recommended you fix the failed processes.
•
Green - (Successful Jobs) Shows all processes that ran successfully.
11.. Access the Marketplace main page from the Marketplace tab in Marketing Cloud Intelligence.
22.. Click Go to Installed Solutions.
If an app failed, the status appears as Failed.
33.. To view details as to why the app failed, click on the app.
In this example, there are a few required fixes, and one recommended fix.
44.. To fix this app, you must go to the three data streams that failed, and fix them. Go to the row of the
failed process and then click Edit.
55.. You can also fix the recommended data stream that failed, but it isn’t mandatory.
66.. When you’re done fixing the failed processes, click Validate & Retry. If the failed processes are fixed,
the app installs successfully.
Marketplace Connectors
The Marketplace offers a Connectors library with a number of customized connectors. With connectors,
connect to an external environment, instead of creating a custom connector. You can find connectors
that were developed by partners, third-party vendors, and Intelligence.
It’s important to note that none of your account data is provided to the partners when installing a
connector. After you install a connector you can use it to create a data stream, with no extra
customizations needed. Only admins can install connectors. If you’re a power user or viewer, you can add
the connector to your wishlist and your admin installs the connector for you. No rows are created after
installing connectors.
View Marketplace Connectors
Explore the available connectors in the Marketplace to find the one that works best for your business
needs. Here you can view the available connectors, get more information, and install a connector in
your account.
Install a Connector
Install a connector to get a custom connector in your account. Connectors are installed for the entire
726

=== PAGE 731 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
account, meaning all workspaces in the account can use and see the connector.
View Installed Connectors
All installed connectors appear in the Installed Solutions page. From here, you can view information
about the connector, uninstall, and report an issue.
View Marketplace Connectors
Explore the available connectors in the Marketplace to find the one that works best for your business
needs. Here you can view the available connectors, get more information, and install a connector in your
account.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To view Marketplace connectors: Admin, Power User, and Viewer
11.. Access the Marketplace main page from the Marketplace tab in Intelligence.
22.. Select the Connectors tab.
If the connector’s been installed a green checkmark appears next to the connector’s name.
33.. To view more information about a connector, click a tile to expand.
44.. To see how the source fields are going to be mapped, click View Dataset.
727

=== PAGE 732 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Note
••
Source—Shows the source fields that are found in the source data.
••
Intelligence—Shows how the source fields are mapped to Intelligence fields.
••
Blue fields indicate that you must add extended properties to the data stream in order for the field
to be available. If you hover over the blue field you can see the exact properties. If you don’t add
them, the field isn’t pulled. For more information, see Create a Data Stream with an API Connector.
Some of the connectors provide the mapping of the source fields to Intelligence fields. Others allow
the admin to control the mapping dynamically. For example, the Granular Data Center connectors
look like this when clicking View Dataset:
728

=== PAGE 733 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Install a Connector
Install a connector to get a custom connector in your account. Connectors are installed for the entire
account, meaning all workspaces in the account can use and see the connector.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To install Marketplace connectors: Admin
Only admins can install connectors. If you’re a power user or viewer, you can send a request to your
admin and they install the connector for you.
11.. Access the Marketplace main page from the Marketplace tab in Intelligence.
22.. Select the Connectors tab.
33.. Select the connector you’re installing and click Get it Now.
44.. If the connector was developed by a third-party vendor or partner, there are additional steps to
complete installation.
After the connector installs it appears in your Installed Solutions under the Connectors tab.
View Installed Connectors
All installed connectors appear in the Installed Solutions page. From here, you can view information
about the connector, uninstall, and report an issue.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To view installed connectors: Admin
When uninstalling, you can choose whether to delete all of the connector’s related entities or keep them.
729

=== PAGE 734 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
If you decide to keep the related entities, the following happens:
•
The connector doesn’t appear in the Connect & Mix tab anymore.
•
All data streams, templates, and authentications remain as they were.
•
The data streams are disabled automatically.
Important If a connector was installed by an app, you can uninstall it by uninstalling the app.
When reporting an issue about a connector, an email is sent to the developer of the connector. Partners
handle issues with partner developed connectors, and Intelligence developers handle issues with
Intelligence developed connectors.
11.. Access the Marketplace main page from the Marketplace tab in Intelligence.
22.. Click Installed Solutions.
33.. Select the Connectors tab.
44.. View information about each connector including:
Connector name
Developer
Number of data streams using this connector
Date it was installed
Who installed the connector
55.. To uninstall the connector, click Options and then select Uninstall.
66.. To report an issue about a connector, select Contact Support.
Depending on the connector developer, either you’re redirected to open a ticket or your email
provider appears with an email for you to fill out.
Marketplace Add-On Features
The Add-On Features tab is a centralized location for all of Marketing Cloud Intelligence add-ons. Add-on
features extend the capabilities of the platform, and can be enabled for free, or at an extra cost.
Explore the available add-ons by watching short explanatory videos or read a one pager, which outlines
all you need to know about the add-on. If you’re interested, you can enable the add-on in your account
directly from here too.
These add-ons are available:
•
API Access—Connect to your data from anywhere and give your users more automation power using
Marketing Cloud Intelligence APIs. For more information, see Developer Portal.
•
Granular Data Center—Connect granular, high volume data into your single source of truth. For more
information, see Marketing Cloud Intelligence Data Lakes.
•
Direct Connect—Create real-time connections to your databases. For more information, see Create
730

=== PAGE 735 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Data Streams with DirectConnect.
•
Executive Workspace—Connect the data from all of your workspaces across clients, regions, and
business units into one view.
•
Media Transparency Center—Gain transparency and save time with automated media costs or
revenue. For more information, see Media Transparency Center.
•
Sandbox—Sandbox is a separate mode where you can safely experiment and test changes before
applying them to your live environment. For more information, see Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Sandbox Testing Environment.
•
White Labeling—Customize the look and feel of your Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform.
Marketplace Widgets
Install and use Marketplace widgets in your workspace to get the full functionality of pre-defined custom
widgets. Custom widgets include ready-to-use page visualization, navigation, and API solutions. After
installing a custom widget, you can edit it and change your dashboard page’s design and behavior.
Install a Custom Widget
Add functionality to your workspace’s dashboard pages with a custom widget. After the custom widget
installs it appears in your Installed Solutions page, and also becomes available in the Visualize tab just
like other widget types.
Add a Custom Widget to a Dashboard
Add a custom widget to apply more advanced use cases to your dashboard page. For example, use an
EMI custom widget to surface AI-powered insights in your dashboards.
Install a Custom Widget
Add functionality to your workspace’s dashboard pages with a custom widget. After the custom widget
installs it appears in your Installed Solutions page, and also becomes available in the Visualize tab just
like other widget types.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To install a custom widget: Admin
Only admins can install custom widgets from the Marketplace. If you’re a power user or viewer, you can
send a request to your admin and they install the custom widget for you.
11.. From the Marketplace tab in Intelligence, go to the Marketplace home page.
22.. On the Widgets tab, select the custom widget that you want to install and click Get it Now.
After the custom widget installs, it appears in your Installed Solutions on the Widgets tab.
731

=== PAGE 736 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Add a Custom Widget to a Dashboard
Add a custom widget to apply more advanced use cases to your dashboard page. For example, use an
EMI custom widget to surface AI-powered insights in your dashboards.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use a custom widget: Admin and Power User
11.. In the Marketing Cloud Intelligence platform, select the Visualize tab.
22.. Select the dashboard and the page that you want to add the widget to.
33.. Click the pencil icon.
44.. Click the + icon.
The available widgets appear under Custom widgets.
732

=== PAGE 737 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
55.. Select the widget.
66.. Modify the code if needed.
Here’s an example of a custom widget that was added to the page.
77.. To add data to your widget, click the blue + icon.
The Marketing Cloud Intelligence Developer Portal
The Developer Portal is an easy-to-use and centralized location for developers who want to develop tools,
use cases, and examples. The Developer Portal offers these tools: Query API, Platform API, Custom Data
Connectors, and Apps.
733

=== PAGE 738 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
API (Application Programming Interface) is a set of definitions, communication protocols, and tools for
building software. API doesn’t use a GUI (Graphic User Interface), rather allows developers to call specific
functions they require via API calls. Marketing Cloud Intelligence uses platform and query APIs, and a
custom connector is used to integrate between Marketing Cloud Intelligence and other third parties. An
app is a web application that lives in the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace and is built using
Intelligence APIs and SDKs. For more information about the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace,
see Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace and Tools.
Any Marketing Cloud Intelligence user can access the Developer Portal; however, your user must be API
enabled in order to make successful API calls. Contact your Marketing Cloud Intelligence representative
for more information. API is a programmatic interface and calls are executed from the developer’s code.
It’s recommended you use a tool called Postman to explore.
Note All Marketing Cloud Intelligence authenticated users can access the API documentation, but
only API-enabled users can execute API calls.
Access the Developer Portal
Access the Developer Portal to develop tools, use cases, and examples.
Developer Portal Tools
The Developer Portal offers different tools for developers to create their own apps, queries, and build
tools.
Access the Developer Portal
Access the Developer Portal to develop tools, use cases, and examples.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To access the Developer Portal: Admin, Power User, and Viewer
To access the Developer Portal, click one of the following links (according to your platform):
•
AWS UShttp://developers.datorama.com
•
AWS EUhttps://platform-eu.datorama.com/developer-portal
•
Azure UShttps://platform-us2.datorama.com/developer-portal
•
Azure EU https://platform-eu2.datorama.com/developer-portal
You can also click the Developer Portal link under the (?) menu inside the Marketing Cloud Intelligence
platform.
Note If you’re using a white label account, access the Developer Portal via the direct link.
After you enter the Developer Portal, the main page appears:
734

=== PAGE 739 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
11.. To see the different sections that are offered, scroll down the page or click the three tabs at the top of
the page to quickly find your way.
Here you can find all the API documentation
API Docs
with examples.
Here you can learn more about building your
Build
apps and connectors.
If you’re a partner and are interested in
developing your own app, read about the
Partners
process of becoming a partner and developing
your Marketplace product.
22.. To copy a direct link of a specific document, hover over a title and then copy the link.
33.. To view parameters with an example of a request and response, click any “endpoint”.
Developer Portal Tools
The Developer Portal offers different tools for developers to create their own apps, queries, and build
tools.
API Docs
Is divided into two subtabs: Platform API and Query API.
Platform API
Here you can find all the API documentation you need for all available endpoints, including Data
Streams, Measurements, Dimensions, Calculated Measurements, Data Lakes, Patterns, and Harmonized
Dimensions. You can automate processes or build tools to manage Marketing Cloud Intelligence
installation. For example, you can use the Platform API to update Data Streams in bulk.
To execute API calls in Sandbox mode, a sandbox-mode header must be passed with the value ‘true’.
Supported endpoints are marked with a purple ‘Sandbox’ tag.
Query API
The Query API allows you to pull marketing data from Marketing Cloud Intelligence into other tools and
platforms or to show in-house visual platforms you developed. If you click a query, you can see more
information about the query so you can try it out for yourself:
735

=== PAGE 740 ===
Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace Apps and Tools in Marketing Cloud Intelligence
Build
This tab is divided into two subtabs: Apps and Connectors.
Note To develop apps and connectors you must be enabled as a developer. For more information,
contact Marketing Cloud Intelligence support.
Apps
An app is a web application that’s built using Marketing Cloud Intelligence API and SDKs. An app can be
submitted to the Marketing Cloud Intelligence Marketplace for other users to install or even purchase, or
it can be available to your account only. All apps can use Marketing Cloud Intelligence functionalities,
including visualization, data integration, data activation and more. An app can be developed using CLI
(Command Line Interface). For more information, see Quick Start.
Connectors
Custom connectors are API connectors, developed independently from the Marketing Cloud Intelligence
infrastructure. These custom API connectors integrate with external code based on a set of
configurations managed from inside the platform. Custom connectors can be used to develop API
integrations for any platform. For example, you can use custom connectors to integrate with marketing
vendors or internal client platforms. Documentation on how to build a Custom Connector appears under
the Build section in the Developer Portal. All connectors can be found in the Marketplace under
Connectors.
Note All Marketing Cloud Intelligence authenticated users can access the documentation, but only
allowed users can access the form to upload and manage custom connectors and apps.
Partners
This section is for partners who are interested in developing and submitting their own apps. Here you
can find detailed information about the process for building, publishing, and submitting apps and more.
736