=== PAGE 1 ===
Salesforce Personalization
Last Updated:2026.06.19

=== PAGE 2 ===
© Copyright 2000–2026 salesforce.com, inc. All rights reserved. Salesforce is a registered trademark of salesforce.com, inc.,
as are other names and marks. Other marks appearing herein may be trademarks of their respective owners.

=== PAGE 3 ===
CONTENTS
Salesforce Personalization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
About Salesforce Personalization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Setup Guide: Data 360 for Salesforce Personalization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Engagement Signals and Metrics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Calculated Affinities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Content Schemas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Personalization Experiences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
Personalization Campaigns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 137
Experimentation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 142
Salesforce Personalization Analytics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 159
Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 173
Batch Personalization Decisions for Customer Segments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203
Einstein Studio Model Predictions for Personalization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 208
Salesforce Personalization References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 209

=== PAGE 5 ===
Salesforce Personalization
Salesforce Personalization in Marketing Cloud Next is a Customer 360 application that uses Data 360 to
provide personalized experiences across Salesforce clouds.
About Salesforce Personalization
Salesforce Personalization Marketing Cloud Next works with Data 360 to provide personalized
experiences across Salesforce clouds. It uses objective-based (using ML), or rules-based content
recommenders to deliver personalized experiences to customers across channels. For simple use
cases, you can also configure rules to surface specific content assets.
Setup Guide: Data 360 for Salesforce Personalization
This guide covers the steps to set up Data 360 to support Salesforce Personalization for Marketing
Cloud Next. It outlines basic recommendations, so that your team can get up and running. For in-
depth information, special features, or customization options, we provide additional resources along
the way.
Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
Salesforce Personalization in Marketing Cloud Next is a Customer 360 application that connects and
provides personalized experiences across clouds. To use Salesforce Personalization, define the
appropriate permissions, and install and configure Data 360 to work with Personalization data model
objects.
Engagement Signals and Metrics
Create engagement signals and metrics to track interactions across channels as individuals engage
with your brand. You can then use these engagement signals when creating objective-based
recommenders to deliver personalized recommendations with Salesforce Personalization in Marketing
Cloud Next.
Calculated Affinities
Calculated affinities enable you to gauge an individual’s interest in objects and their selected
attributes. The output of a calculated affinity provides a numerical score to indicate preference.
Personalization uses this value in segmentation, decision targeting, recommendation filtering, and
when grounding Salesforce AI Agents to improve decision-making, enhance personalized output, and
build trust.
Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
Salesforce Personalization in Marketing Cloud Next generates multichannel, focused, and
individualized recommendations based off of deep, digital, and offline behavioral and business
context data. To create personalized recommendations, you configure a recommender and train it
using Data 360 data graphs that you select.
Content Schemas
Salesforce content schemas define the structure and configuration of data returned by a
personalization decision. They act as a bridge between the underlying data structure and a business
1

=== PAGE 6 ===
Salesforce Personalization
user's configuration experience, ensuring that personalized content—such as AI-driven
recommendations or dynamic content—is delivered in a consistent, uniform format across various
channels.
Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
Use Salesforce Personalization in Marketing Cloud Next to create a personalization point. This object
delivers personalized content by tying together a data space, profile data graph, personalization type,
and response template. After you define these entities, you can add decisions and targeting rules to
the personalization point.
Personalization Experiences
Create and manage personalization experiences and experience templates to deliver targeted content
to your customers.
Personalization Campaigns
Use a guided configuration workflow to create a personalization campaign.
Experimentation
Experiments provide customer insights that help you make better decisions. Create experiments with
Salesforce Personalization in Marketing Cloud Next to learn which personalized and agentic
experiences resonate best with your customers.
Salesforce Personalization Analytics
Analytics for Salesforce Personalization in Marketing Cloud Next are designed to provide insights into
how your app is running, and the effectiveness of your personalization program. To gain operational
insights, you can use the Personalization pipeline intelligence dashboard. To understand
personalization effectiveness and performance, you can use the attribution dashboard. The attribution
dashboard enables you to visualize preconfigured, ready-to-use attribution configurations available
through personalization setup, or custom attribution configurations that you define. You can also
visualize any personalization analytics DMOs using Tableau or any JDBC-compatible client.
Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
Learn how Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization in Marketing Cloud Next creates and delivers
personalized recommendations, content, and how it can provide essential contextual data for other
agents.
Batch Personalization Decisions for Customer Segments
With Batch Personalizations, you can create personalized decisions for a Data 360 segment and save
the decisions to Data Model Objects (DMO) in Data 360. You can then send the batch personalization
output to other platforms like Marketing Cloud Engagement (MCE), Google Cloud Platform (GCP),
Amazon S3, and Azure to power your cross-channel marketing campaigns. For example, using Data
360, Salesforce Personalization, and MCE, you can use recommendations created for a Data 360
customer segment in MCE emails to notify your customers about an upcoming year-end sale.
Einstein Studio Model Predictions for Personalization
Use real-time predictions from Einstein Studio models in Salesforce Personalization targeting rules to
refine your personalization decisions. For example, consider you have a predictive model in Einstein
Studio that predicts the chances of customers buying an item from your website. You can use this
output in your targeting rules to determine the customers eligible for a special discount.
Salesforce Personalization References
Use these references when configuring or validating Salesforce Data 360 calculated insights for using
2

=== PAGE 7 ===
Salesforce Personalization
Salesforce Personalization in Marketing Cloud Next.
3

=== PAGE 8 ===
Salesforce Personalization About Salesforce Personalization
About Salesforce Personalization
Salesforce Personalization Marketing Cloud Next works with Data 360 to provide personalized
experiences across Salesforce clouds. It uses objective-based (using ML), or rules-based content
recommenders to deliver personalized experiences to customers across channels. For simple use cases,
you can also configure rules to surface specific content assets.
How Salesforce Personalization Works
Salesforce Personalization uses Data 360 to isolate, organize, and prepare data for use as personalized
content. Data 360 data spaces provide logical partitions to organize the data for profile unification,
calculated insights, and marketing.
Standard Editions and Licenses for Salesforce Personalization
Salesforce Personalization is available in several standard Salesforce editions. Personalization requires
a Data 360 license.
Billable Usage Type for Salesforce Personalization
Usage of Salesforce Personalization features impacts Personalization Credit consumption. For more
information on how usage is billed, refer to your contract or contact your account executive.
Terminology in Salesforce Personalization
To deliver personalized experience across clouds and other channels, Personalization uses a variety of
objects, DMOs, and functions across Data 360 and Salesforce apps. Learn the terms that appear
throughout the Salesforce Personalization user interface and documentation.
Limits for Salesforce Personalization
Learn about Salesforce Personalization limits.
Salesforce Personalization Data Model Objects
The Salesforce Personalization data model subject area includes multiple data model objects (DMOs)
that store personalization decision activities.
How Salesforce Personalization Works
Salesforce Personalization uses Data 360 to isolate, organize, and prepare data for use as personalized
content. Data 360 data spaces provide logical partitions to organize the data for profile unification,
calculated insights, and marketing.
A data space contains data graphs that use data model objects (DMOs) to build precalculated views of
your data. Personalization uses these data graphs to obtain and deliver personalized content to users or
site visitors. Personalization uses its own DMOs when making decisions about which individuals are
eligible to receive a personalization and when determining which personalized content to provide.
Personalization is delivered in the following ways.
•
A Customer 360 Personalization application that centralizes connected and personalized experiences
across clouds.
4

=== PAGE 9 ===
Salesforce Personalization About Salesforce Personalization
•
Personalization as a Service that uses Data 360 to provide real-time personalization functionality to
Salesforce customers across channels.
See Also
Implementation Guide: Salesforce Personalization (PDF)
Salesforce Help: Manage Data Spaces
Salesforce Help: Data Graphs
Standard Editions and Licenses for Salesforce Personalization
Salesforce Personalization is available in several standard Salesforce editions. Personalization requires a
Data 360 license.
Standard Editions
Salesforce Personalization is available in Lightning Experience with these standard Salesforce editions.
•
Developer
•
Enterprise
•
Professional
•
Unlimited
Prerequisites
Salesforce Personalization requires an active Data 360 license to function. For more information on Data
360 licenses, see Data 360 Standard Editions and Licenses.
Personalization License
The Personalization license grants access to the full suite of advanced capabilities required to configure
and manage in-depth personalization strategies. This license supports delivery across your website,
mobile app, and other channels outside Salesforce clouds, ensuring comprehensive omnichannel
engagement and unlocking the platform's complete toolset.
•
What it is: The full-featured, primary license. It grants access to the complete Personalization app and
all its capabilities.
•
Primary use case: Use the included 50 million Personalization Credits for high-volume, real-time
personalization on web and mobile apps.
Personalization Card License
The Personalization Card license is a consumption-based add-on that enables you to build and test
specific personalization experiences directly within your primary Salesforce editions. This license is
5

=== PAGE 10 ===
Salesforce Personalization About Salesforce Personalization
perfect for testing how personalization can enhance your email marketing, sales processes, or customer
service interactions.
•
What it is: This card enables you to unlock and test cross-channel and cloud-based personalization use
cases in Salesforce apps. It also provides an initial set of credits and advanced features to build and
test these scenarios.
•
Primary use case: Use this card for personalization use cases other than web and mobile apps that
require a Salesforce Personalization license. You can deliver personalized content and
recommendations within Marketing Cloud Advanced (Email Personalization) and extend personalized
insights and actions to your teams in other Salesforce apps. It also powers tailored insights and
recommendations for agents in Agentforce.
This table compares the two licenses.
Aspect Personalization License Personalization CARD
The full-featured, primary license
A consumption-based add-on or
Scope for accessing the complete
a limited, standalone license.
Personalization app.
Extends the capabilities of the
full license by adding more
High-volume, real-time credits, if necessary. Use this
Primary use case
personalization on web and app. standalone license to unlock
Personalization in other
Salesforce apps as well.
Extra credits to unlock
•
Email Personalization: Deliver
recommendations within
•
Delivering real-time Marketing Cloud Advanced.
•
personalization on your Cross-cloud Personalization:
Example applications website. Extend insights to Sales Cloud,
•
Personalizing content within Service Cloud, and Loyalty
your mobile app. Cloud.
•
Agentforce: Power insights
and recommendations for
agents.
Included credits 50 million 1 million
Attribution models 20 2
See Also
Salesforce Help: Salesforce Editions
6

=== PAGE 11 ===
Salesforce Personalization About Salesforce Personalization
Billable Usage Type for Salesforce Personalization
Usage of Salesforce Personalization features impacts Personalization Credit consumption. For more
information on how usage is billed, refer to your contract or contact your account executive.
Usage Type
Tip This feature has access to Digital Wallet, a free account management tool that offers near real-
time consumption data for enabled products across your active contracts. Access Digital Wallet and
start tracking your org's usage. To learn more, see About Digital Wallet.
Type Description
Personalization Decision A personalization decision is responsible for determining who’s
eligible to receive a personalization response using optional
targeting rules. A decision is also responsible for determining which
content to return in a decision response, for example, a set of
product recommendations or a banner image. Each
personalization point can contain multiple personalization
decisions targeted at different sets of individuals. Decisions can be
prioritized so that if a person qualifies for more than one,
Personalization returns only one decision.
See Also
Add a Decision to a Personalization Point
Data Cloud Usage and Access Changes
Terminology in Salesforce Personalization
To deliver personalized experience across clouds and other channels, Personalization uses a variety of
objects, DMOs, and functions across Data 360 and Salesforce apps. Learn the terms that appear
throughout the Salesforce Personalization user interface and documentation.
Term Definition
Calculated Insight (CI) A tool in Data 360 that queries, transforms, and creates complex
calculations based on stored data.
Data Graph
A grouping of data created by combining and transforming normalized
table data from data model objects (DMOs) into new, materialized views.
You can make fewer calls, and queries respond in near real-time, because
the data is precalculated.
You can use two data graphs with Salesforce Personalization: profile and
7

=== PAGE 12 ===
Salesforce Personalization About Salesforce Personalization
Term Definition
item. The profile data graph builds a single, unified profile for individuals
by identifying and linking a user's activities from different channels. The
item data graph supports recommendations.
Data Stream A data source brought into Data 360. For example, behavioral data from a
website.
Decisioning API The primary service endpoint used by Salesforce Personalization to
request and process personalized decisions for your users.
Mapping
The process of associating data lake objects (DLOs) to data model objects
(DMOs) after data has been ingested into Data 360.
The number of mapped fields and how you map them impacts the
availability and complexity of your personalization options.
Personalization point A personalization point represents a "point" in an experience that’s
eligible for a personalization decision. A personalization point has a type
and response template that defines the kind of personalization that you
can configure on a decision and which personalized content that decision
returns.
Personalization type The personalization type identifies the kind of personalized content that
you want to present, such as a recommendation.
Personalization content A personalization content schema defines the configuration options
schema available to marketers when they’re building a personalization decision.
The response template also ensures that all decision responses for a
given personalization point return data in the same format.
Personalization decision A personalization decision determines who’s eligible to receive a
personalization response using optional targeting rules. Decisions also
determine what content to return, for example, a set of product
recommendations or a banner image. A personalization point can
contain multiple personalization decisions targeted at different sets of
individuals. You can prioritize decisions so that if a person qualifies for
more than one, Personalization returns only one decision.
Personalizer The personalizer calls an additional service at run time to retrieve the
information necessary for a complete decision response. For example, if
you configure a decision to present recommendations, the personalizer
calls the recommender service configured for that decision. The
recommender then retrieves the targeted, personalized content for
specific individuals.
Recommender A recommender is a type of personalizer that provides targeted product
8

=== PAGE 13 ===
Salesforce Personalization About Salesforce Personalization
Term Definition
or item recommendations. A recommendation is based on machine
learning strategies or calculated insights and is usable across channels.
When creating a recommender, you can define it to provide either goal-
based recommendations or rule-based recommendations.
Sitemap
A JavaScript file that outlines the data capture logic across different pages
of your website.
The sitemap determines how SDK captures user interactions from your
website during site navigation.
Targeting rule A targeting rule determines who’s eligible to view personalized content
provided by a decision based on specific data points, such as attributes,
related attributes, calculated insights, or segment memberships. Using
data points defined on the selected Data 360 profile data graph, you can
create a targeting rule on any associated personalization point decisions.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Manage Data Spaces
Salesforce Help: Data Graphs
Limits for Salesforce Personalization
Learn about Salesforce Personalization limits.
Personalization Category Feature Value
Function
Recommenders Resources Recommenders per
10
Salesforce org (across
all data spaces). To
1 objective-based
discuss increasing this
recommender with the
limit, contact Salesforce
Salesforce
Customer Support.
Personalization Card.
Full recommender data Daily
refresh frequency
Maximum number of 60000
recommendation
requests per minute per
tenant
Recommendations Maximum number of 24
9

=== PAGE 14 ===
Salesforce Personalization About Salesforce Personalization
Personalization Category Feature Value
Function
recommendations to
return
Maximum number of 10
recommender
objectives you can
configure per org
Filters Maximum number of 10
filter conditions for an
include or exclude filter
Maximum number of Top 100 values
item data graph
calculated insight values
(dimensions +
measures) considered
for recommendation
Maximum number of 100
filter values from the
profile data graph
considered per filter
condition
Maximum number of 100
values considered from
a DMO when
performing filter
comparisons
Maximum number of 20
direct related objects to
the root DMO per item
data graph
Engagement Engagement Signals Maximum number of 25
engagement signals
used for model training
per objective-based
recommender
Maximum number of 100
engagement signals per
org
10

=== PAGE 15 ===
Salesforce Personalization About Salesforce Personalization
Personalization Category Feature Value
Function
Maximum number of 100
engagement signals per
data space
Maximum number of 10
engagement signal
filters per engagement
signal
Maximum number of 1
related DMOs per
engagement signal
Number of referenced
3
field levels allowed
when referencing an
For example, DMO
engagement signal in a
(unified individual) >
data graph
field level 1 (individual)
> field level 2 (product
browse engagement) >
field level 3 (sales order
product engagement)
Engagement Signal Maximum number of 100
Metrics and Compound engagement signal
Metrics metrics per org
Maximum number of 100
engagement signal
compound metrics per
org
Maximum number of 100
engagement signal
metrics per data space
Maximum number of 100
engagement signal
compound metrics per
data space
Maximum number of 10
engagement signal
metrics per
engagement signal
11

=== PAGE 16 ===
Salesforce Personalization About Salesforce Personalization
Personalization Category Feature Value
Function
Attributions Resources Maximum number of 20
attribution models per
org (across all data
spaces; including active
and inactive models)
Maximum number of 10
attribution models per
data space
Stages Maximum number of 4
stages per attribution
configuration
Engagement Signals Number of engagement 1
and Metrics signals per attribution
stage
Maximum number of 5
engagement signal
metrics per attribution
configuration
Batch Personalizations Resources Maximum number of 20
active batch
personalization jobs per
Salesforce org
Personalization Points Personalization Maximum number of 25
Decisions decisions per
personalization point
Maximum number of 50
targeting conditions per
decision or experiment
Maximum number of 10
merge fields across
personalization
attribute fields per
decision
Salesforce Personalization Data Model Objects
The Salesforce Personalization data model subject area includes multiple data model objects (DMOs)
12

=== PAGE 17 ===
Salesforce Personalization About Salesforce Personalization
that store personalization decision activities.
Salesforce Personalization pipeline DMOs include design time and runtime objects. These pipeline
objects accumulate runtime data specific to the personalization request process. They define where
personalizations appear, eligibility for receiving personalized content, and how to present content to
users or site visitors.
Pipeline DMO Description
Personalization Point DMO Gathers the information for generating and presenting personalized
content. This information includes eligibility, content decisions, and
presentation.
Personalization Decision Enables decisioning to determine eligibility and present personalized
DMO content.
Personalization Content Defines options for decision configuration and presentation and how
Schema DMO each decision response appears.
Personalizer DMO Determines whether to call an additional service at run time to retrieve
the information for a complete decision response, for example, calling a
recommender service to retrieve targeted, personalized content.
Personalization Log DMO Gathers pipeline operational and attribution data associated with a
personalized engagement.
Personalization attribution DMOs record the attributed data for a personalization point and the content
or items recommended. This data is essential to understanding how effective personalized content is on
a customer’s behavior and purchases. For example, in a commerce implementation, engagement can be
attributed to clicks, orders, or revenue directly associated with a specific personalization point or with
specific personalized content presented to an individual.
Attribution DMO Description
Personalization Point First
Determines attribution based on first touch engagement with a
Touch View-Based
personalization point.
Attribution DMO
The first touch mechanism attributes business key performance
indicators to the initial individual engagement when multiple
engagements qualify.
Multiple qualifying engagements are resolved by assigning the first
engagement 100% of the value. For example, if an individual purchases
a product that was recommended three different times from a
personalization point, within the attribution window, the first
engagement (view or impression) receives 100% of the value for that
purchase.
13

=== PAGE 18 ===
Salesforce Personalization About Salesforce Personalization
Attribution DMO Description
Personalization Content
Determines attribution based on first touch engagement with content
First Touch View-Based
presented during a personalized experience.
Attribution DMO
The first touch mechanism attributes business key performance
indicators to the initial individual engagement when multiple
engagements qualify.
Multiple qualifying engagements are resolved by assigning the first
engagement 100% of the value. For example, if an individual purchases
a recommended product that they viewed multiple times within the
attribution window, the first engagement (view or impression) receives
100% of the value for that purchase.
Personalization Point Last
Determines attribution based on last touch engagement with a
Touch View-Based
personalization point.
Attribution DMO
The last touch mechanism attributes business key performance
indicators to the final individual engagement when multiple
engagements qualify.
Multiple qualifying engagements are resolved by assigning the last
engagement 100% of the value. For example, if an individual purchases
a product that was recommended three different times from a
personalization point, within the attribution window, the last
engagement (view or impression) receives 100% of the value for that
purchase.
Personalization Content
Determines attribution based on last touch engagement with content
Last Touch View-Based
presented during a personalized experience.
Attribution DMO
The last touch mechanism attributes business key performance
indicators to the final individual engagement when multiple
engagements qualify.
Multiple qualifying engagements are resolved by assigning the last
engagement 100% of the value. For example, if an individual purchases
a recommended product that they viewed multiple times within the
attribution window, the last engagement (view or impression) receives
100% of the value for that purchase.
Experiment DMOs record the metadata and performance of personalization experiments. This data
provides insights about the personalization strategies that are most effective and drive desired business
outcomes.
14

=== PAGE 19 ===
Salesforce Personalization Setup Guide: Data 360 for Salesforce Personalization
EXPERIMENT DMO Description
Experiment DMO Defines the core metadata of an experiment, such as its name,
description, state, start and stop times, and primary metrics.
Experiment Cohort DMO Defines the metadata of different cohorts within an experiment,
including control and treatment groups, their allocation weights, and
associated personalization details.
Experimentation Log DMO Gathers data from individual personalization experiment events.
Experimentation Summary Captures the aggregated summary of your experiments. This DMO
DMO includes key metrics, participant counts, and statistical analysis results for
overall experiment performance.
Experimentation Daily Captures the daily aggregated summary of your experiments, offering a
Summary DMO day-by-day view of performance metrics and participant engagement.
The Batch Personalization output DMO records the output created for a batch personalization. This data
provides information about the decisions created against a segment and personalization point. The DMO
output can then be send to other systems, such as Marketing Cloud Engagement, using Data 360 DMO
Activations.
BATCH PERSONALIZATION Description
DMO
Batch Personalization Captures the decisions created for a batch personalization.
Output DMO
See Also
Personalization Data Model Objects
How Salesforce Personalization Works
Setup Guide: Data 360 for Salesforce Personalization
This guide covers the steps to set up Data 360 to support Salesforce Personalization for Marketing Cloud
Next. It outlines basic recommendations, so that your team can get up and running. For in-depth
information, special features, or customization options, we provide additional resources along the way.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
Available in: Salesforce Enterprise and Unlimited Editions with the Personalization Starter add-on.
11.. Getting to Know Salesforce Personalization
Salesforce Personalization Marketing Cloud Next works with Data 360 to provide personalized
experiences across Salesforce clouds. It uses objective-based (using ML), or rules-based content
15

=== PAGE 20 ===
Salesforce Personalization Setup Guide: Data 360 for Salesforce Personalization
recommenders to deliver personalized experiences to customers across channels. For simple use
cases, you can also configure rules to surface specific content assets.
22.. Assigning Permissions to Admins and Users
To set up Salesforce Personalization, you work in Salesforce Setup, Data 360 Setup, and the Data 360
and Salesforce Personalization apps. Before you begin, make sure you and other admins on your team
have the necessary roles and permissions.
33.. Enable Data 360 and Deploy Personalization Data Kits
Turn on Data 360 and deploy data kits to provide the unified data and necessary infrastructure to
power the core capabilities of Salesforce Personalization.
44.. Schedule Required Calculated Insights
After the calculated insights from the data kit are available, you must schedule them to run
periodically. This data is used to generate the metrics that measures and populates the personalization
pipeline intelligence dashboard. A Data 360 Admin can complete this task in the Data 360 app.
55.. Building a Data 360 Sitemap for Personalization
To assist with building a Data 360 sitemap for Personalization, you can use the Salesforce Data 360
Sitemap Builder. This tool is a low-code to no-code Chrome extension tool that helps to simplify the
creation of Data 360 sitemaps and schemas. The purpose of this extension is to help decrease the
need for JavaScript programming knowledge, and make personalization implementation more
accessible to non-developers.
66.. Configure a Website Connector
To allow data to move between interactions on your website and Salesforce Personalization, you must
create a connector, create a sitemap, and install the SDK that sends interaction data back to Salesforce
Personalization.
77.. Upload an Event Schema
When you set up a website connector to send event data to Data 360, you must upload a schema file
in JSON format that outlines the structure of the event data that you’re tracking.
88.. Configure and Map Data Streams
Installing the data kits add the objects and fields that store marketing data. However, the data kits only
deploy datastreams used for analytics and attribution. To bring external data and make it available to
your marketing tools and processes, you must deploy data streams and map them to the Data 360
objects.
99.. Configure Identity Resolution Rules
Identity resolution is a critical step to organizing and unifying your data. Usually, when your data
originates from many systems, it’s modeled and labeled differently in each place. Identity resolution
rulesets define the relationships among data model objects (DMOs) and their fields. After you
configure these rules, Data 360 can organize related and duplicate data into unified individual records
that marketers can use for cross-channel personalization.
1100.. Create Required Data Graphs
Instead of querying your entire database every time you want to serve personalized content, Data 360
and Salesforce Personalization use data graphs, which organize and store only relevant data. For
Salesforce Personalization, you can use two data graphs: a real-time profile data graph for person
details, and a standard item data graph for product and content information.
1111.. Create Calculated Insights for Targeting
Calculated Insights can streamline your personalization strategy for rules-based recommenders and
recommendation filters. For example, add a calculated insight to your item data graph to identify most
16

=== PAGE 21 ===
Salesforce Personalization Setup Guide: Data 360 for Salesforce Personalization
viewed or most purchased products or to restrict products for certain recommendations.
Getting to Know Salesforce Personalization
Salesforce Personalization Marketing Cloud Next works with Data 360 to provide personalized
experiences across Salesforce clouds. It uses objective-based (using ML), or rules-based content
recommenders to deliver personalized experiences to customers across channels. For simple use cases,
you can also configure rules to surface specific content assets.
See Also
Salesforce Personalization and Data 360
Assigning Permissions to Admins and Users
To set up Salesforce Personalization, you work in Salesforce Setup, Data 360 Setup, and the Data 360
and Salesforce Personalization apps. Before you begin, make sure you and other admins on your team
have the necessary roles and permissions.
For users who create personalization experiences, we recommend creating a permission set that contains
the permissions listed in the standard . Additional permissions can be added individually or to a
permission set, based on a user’s business needs. You can also create permission sets for users who
create content or analyze reporting data.
Using Standard Permission Sets
Streamline Salesforce Personalization user permission setup using predefined, standard permission sets.
17

=== PAGE 22 ===
Salesforce Personalization Setup Guide: Data 360 for Salesforce Personalization
You can choose permissions for either the Personalization Admin or Personalization User roles.
For details about system permissions and default object settings for each permission set role, see
Personalization Standard Permission Sets.
Update the Data 360 Connector Permissions
Configure the Data 360 permission set with the appropriate Salesforce Personalization access and
permissions. For detailed steps, see Update the Data 360 Connector Permissions.
See Also
Update the Data 360 Connector Permissions
Enable Data 360 and Deploy Personalization Data Kits
Turn on Data 360 and deploy data kits to provide the unified data and necessary infrastructure to power
the core capabilities of Salesforce Personalization.
Enable Data 360
11.. In the App Launcher, search for and select Data Cloud.
22.. Click to access Data Cloud Setup and enable it.
A Data Cloud Architect is required to complete this process.
Install and Deploy Personalization Data Kits
11.. In the org containing your Personalization install, click Setup and select Personalization Setup.
22.. Under Personalization Setup Options, click the Foundational Setup tab.
33.. In the Deploy Foundational Data section, click Select Data Space.
44.. Select a data space that you want to deploy foundational data to and click Deploy.
See Also
Data Graph Configuration for Objective-Based Recommenders
Salesforce Help: Getting Started with Marketing Cloud Next Setup
Schedule Required Calculated Insights
After the calculated insights from the data kit are available, you must schedule them to run periodically.
This data is used to generate the metrics that measures and populates the personalization pipeline
intelligence dashboard. A Data 360 Admin can complete this task in the Data 360 app.
11.. In Data Cloud, on the Calculated Insights tab, click New.
22.. From the Data Space dropdown, select a data space.
You can use only the data spaces that you have access to. Only the objects that are included in the
18

=== PAGE 23 ===
Salesforce Personalization Setup Guide: Data 360 for Salesforce Personalization
data space are available to create a calculated insight.
33.. Select how you want to create the calculated insight.
••
Create with Builder—If selected, select the required objects, add the aggregate node and measure,
apply the aggregate node, and then click Save and Run. Enter the calculated insight name, and click
Next.
••
Create with SQL—If selected, enter the new insight SQL expression, and then click Activate.
44.. From the Schedule dropdown, select a schedule.
The user's time zone is used to determine the calculated insight schedule.
55.. Select the start date and time of the schedule.
66.. Click Enable.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Schedule a Calculated Insight in Data 360
Building a Data 360 Sitemap for Personalization
To assist with building a Data 360 sitemap for Personalization, you can use the Salesforce Data 360
Sitemap Builder. This tool is a low-code to no-code Chrome extension tool that helps to simplify the
creation of Data 360 sitemaps and schemas. The purpose of this extension is to help decrease the need
for JavaScript programming knowledge, and make personalization implementation more accessible to
non-developers.
Install the Sitemap Builder Chrome Extension
Install the Salesforce Data 360 Sitemap Builder Chrome extension to help simplify sitemap creation
for Salesforce Personalization.
Learn Sitemap Builder Basics
Before using the Salesforce Data 360 Sitemap Builder tool, you can take a tour of the extension to
learn more about it.
Launch the Sitemap Builder Chrome Extension
You can launch the Salesforce Data 360 Sitemap Builder Chrome extension on any web page.
Using Sitemap Builder Modes
The sitemap builder provides several modes for use in your sitemap development and testing cycles.
Using Sitemap Builder Tabs
Sitemap builder tabs are organized to help step you through the sitemap creation process. These tabs
highlight key configuration steps for the sitemap, as well as important outputs for review.
Install the Sitemap Builder Chrome Extension
Install the Salesforce Data 360 Sitemap Builder Chrome extension to help simplify sitemap creation for
Salesforce Personalization.
To install the Chrome extension:
11.. Go to the Chrome Web Store
19

=== PAGE 24 ===
Salesforce Personalization Setup Guide: Data 360 for Salesforce Personalization
22.. Search for and select Salesforce Data 360 Sitemap Builder.
33.. Click the extension.
44.. Click Add to Chrome.
55.. In the confirmation dialot box, click Add extension.
Learn Sitemap Builder Basics
Before using the Salesforce Data 360 Sitemap Builder tool, you can take a tour of the extension to learn
more about it.
To start the Sitemap Builder tour:
11.. In your Chrome browser, locate and click the Chrome extension icon (jigsaw piece) to the right of the
address bar.
22.. In the Extensions list menu, click the Salesforce Data 360 Sitemap Builder extension.
33.. In the Get Started tab, click the Take a Tour button.
The tour provides information about important sitemap features and steps through key components
of the sitemap builder extension, ranging from configuration to testing.
Launch the Sitemap Builder Chrome Extension
You can launch the Salesforce Data 360 Sitemap Builder Chrome extension on any web page.
Important When using the sitemap builder extension, keep in mind that it associates with the last
active page.
To launch the sitemap builder Chrome extension:
11.. In your Chrome browser, locate and click the Chrome extension icon (jigsaw piece) to the right of the
address bar.
22.. In the Extensions list menu, click the Salesforce Data 360 Sitemap Builder extension.
33.. (Optional) To open the extension in its own window, click the expand icon in the upper right corner of
the extension.
44.. Select how you want to begin building your sitemap. You can choose from three options.
Option Description
Retail Quick Start This option opens a sitemap builder version that
includes preconfigured, retail-focused page
types, resolvers, and events to assist in the
configuration process.
Advanced | Start from Scratch This option opens a sitemap builder version with
no preset configuration for consent
management, or sample content for page types,
resolvers, or events.
20

=== PAGE 25 ===
Salesforce Personalization Setup Guide: Data 360 for Salesforce Personalization
Option Description
Advanced | Import Existing Sitemap This option enables you to upload an existing
sitemap, and prepopulates individual tabs with
any preexisting data.
55.. Click Select and Start.
Using Sitemap Builder Modes
The sitemap builder provides several modes for use in your sitemap development and testing cycles.
Tab What it Does
Configure As the primary builder mode, it enables
configuration of the sitemap. Sitemap
configurations can range from the simple tagging
of page views to defining more complex custom
behavioral events and attributes to capture.
Inject This mode enables you to test the sitemap locally,
before you deploy it.
Debug This mode enables you to view the Data 360 event
structure and personalization decisioning
payloads for debugging purposes.
Review & Download Using this mode, you can review the sitemap and
schema structure before exporting and uploading
it to Data 360 for use by Salesforce
Personalization.
Using Sitemap Builder Tabs
Sitemap builder tabs are organized to help step you through the sitemap creation process. These tabs
highlight key configuration steps for the sitemap, as well as important outputs for review.
Tab What it Does
Settings This tab enables you to define global settings for
the sitemap. These settings include the data space
selection, logging level, and how the sitemap
reacts to URL changes.
Consent Management Before the Data 360 Web SDK can capture
behavioral data for the personalization module to
use in personalized decision responses, you must
21

=== PAGE 26 ===
Salesforce Personalization Setup Guide: Data 360 for Salesforce Personalization
Tab What it Does
define consent. This tab simplifies alignment of
your consent banner to the Data 360 sitemap.
Page Types Page Types enable you to logically group web
pages together that have similar functions on a
website. For example, all product pages. This tab
enables you to determine what events and data to
send from a page to Data 360.
Resolvers Resolvers are small, reusable functions that extract
data values from the page (DOM, URL, storage, or
JavaScript context). You define them once and
then you can reference them across multiple
events and page types. Resolvers enable you to
choose the data you want to capture using
Element Selection or Custom JavaScript.
Profile Attributes In addition to item data, an event can also contain
information about an individual. By default the
SDK captures and sends the deviceId, but you can
also provide identifying information, like an email
address, that can help assist with real-time identity
resolution and create a more durable profile over
time.
Events Events can range from a simple, generic page view
to a more complex product purchase or add to
cart event containing a number of previously
mapped item attributes.
Schema This tab enables you to review the autogenerated
Data 360 schema based on all configured sitemap
values.
Configure a Website Connector
To allow data to move between interactions on your website and Salesforce Personalization, you must
create a connector, create a sitemap, and install the SDK that sends interaction data back to Salesforce
Personalization.
Create a Connector
To send data from your website to Salesforce, you must configure a connector.
11.. From Data Cloud Setup, search Configuration, and then click Websites & Mobile Apps.
22

=== PAGE 27 ===
Salesforce Personalization Setup Guide: Data 360 for Salesforce Personalization
22.. Click New.
33.. Enter a connector name.
44.. From the Connector Type dropdown, select Website, and then click Save.
Create a Sitemap
A sitemap is a JavaScript file that defines the logic to capture data across different pages of your website.
It's used by the SDK to collect interaction data and share it with Data 360.
11.. In Data Cloud Setup under Configuration, click Websites & Mobile Apps.
22.. To open the website record page, click the website.
33.. In Sitemap, upload the file. If you change the sitemap later, to upload the new one, click Upload |
Replace Sitemap.
44.. Navigate to the location of the sitemap that you saved.
55.. Select the file and then click Open.
66.. Review the sitemap for errors, and save your sitemap.
For more information about Interactions SDK sitemaps, see Sitemap or review this example sitemap in
Salesforce Developer Documentation.
Verify Your Data Space in SDK
A data space relates to the data streams and data graphs that are used for personalization. Out of the
box, Salesforce Personalization works with the default data space. To use a different data space, you
must define it via an API call.
This example shows an API call to define your data space:
SalesforceInteractions.init({
consents: [],
personalization: {
dataspace: "personalizationDemo",
},
});
See Also
Create and Upload a Sitemap
Example Sitemap
Upload a Website Sitemap to Data 360
Request Personalization Through the Sitemap
Upload an Event Schema
When you set up a website connector to send event data to Data 360, you must upload a schema file in
23

=== PAGE 28 ===
Salesforce Personalization Setup Guide: Data 360 for Salesforce Personalization
JSON format that outlines the structure of the event data that you’re tracking.
We suggest using the recommended schema, but you can choose to upload your own custom schema.
After the schema is available, each interaction type appears as an object with corresponding attributes.
11.. Download the recommended schema file or use your own custom schema file.
22.. Open Data Cloud Setup.
33.. Search and select Websites & Mobile Apps.
44.. Open the connection for which you want to upload a schema and find the Schema section
55.. Click Upload Schema.
66.. After confirming that all events and their associated fields are populated correctly, save your work.
After you upload the schema, examine it for accuracy.
See Also
Upload Your Event Schema
Configure and Map Data Streams
Installing the data kits add the objects and fields that store marketing data. However, the data kits only
deploy datastreams used for analytics and attribution. To bring external data and make it available to
your marketing tools and processes, you must deploy data streams and map them to the Data 360
objects.
The data stream names and field values are predefined by the package and can’t be changed.
Configure Web Personalization Data Streams
Now that you’ve set up your website connector, and installed and set up the SDK on your website, you
need to create a data stream that pushes interaction details to Data 360.
One data stream with the category Engagement consolidates every engagement event. Each profile
event is individually categorized into its own data stream with the category Profile.
11.. In Data Cloud, navigate to the Data Streams tab, and then click New.
22.. Under Connected Sources, click Website and then click Next.
33.. From the Website dropdown, select the website connector you configured.
44.. Select the events that you’d like to capture from your website, and then click Next.
55.. Review and verify the events you selected and their associated fields, and then click Next.
66.. Select the data space that you want to use with this data stream.
77.. For each profile event, find the Refresh Mode dropdown and select Partial.
During this process, you can select how often to refresh the data stream. We highly recommend
selecting Partial, which inserts only updated data. The Incremental option overwrites rows, which can
inadvertently delete field values in certain situations.
88.. Click Deploy.
24

=== PAGE 29 ===
Salesforce Personalization Setup Guide: Data 360 for Salesforce Personalization
Map Data Streams
The data streams you just created move external data into DLOs (Data Lake Objects). However,
Salesforce Personalization uses data from DMOs (Data Model Objects). As a result, you must map fields
from the DLOs to fields in your DMOs.
Beyond the engagement events that indicate someone’s interaction with your site, Data 360 can also use
profile data for more in-depth targeting.
The process to map fields from your site into Data 360 varies for each organization. These reference
documents outline the available DLO fields and recommend possible DMO mappings.
Note The Party Identification DMO is used as a primary key, which is used for identity resolution. A
Party ID can be any unique identifier, such as a SubscriberKey, IP address, or other alphanumeric
value.
•
Behavioral Events
•
Contact Point Address
•
Contact Point Email
•
Contact Point Phone
•
Identity Data
•
Party Identification Mapping
Configure Identity Resolution Rules
Identity resolution is a critical step to organizing and unifying your data. Usually, when your data
originates from many systems, it’s modeled and labeled differently in each place. Identity resolution
rulesets define the relationships among data model objects (DMOs) and their fields. After you configure
these rules, Data 360 can organize related and duplicate data into unified individual records that
marketers can use for cross-channel personalization.
Configure a Custom Ruleset
You can manually configure a custom ruleset for the Individual or Unified Individual object. A custom
ruleset creates unified records that meet your specific business needs and specifications.
Add Recommended Rules to Your Identity Resolution Ruleset
To get the most out of Identity Resolution, we recommend adding two custom rules to the Individual
object ruleset. First, add a rule to match exact values when a lead converts to a contact. If you use web
tracking on Marketing Cloud Next landing pages or a connected external site, add a rule that attributes
activity to the correct unified individual.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Configure Identity Resolution Rulesets for Marketing Cloud Next
25

=== PAGE 30 ===
Salesforce Personalization Setup Guide: Data 360 for Salesforce Personalization
Configure a Custom Ruleset
You can manually configure a custom ruleset for the Individual or Unified Individual object. A custom
ruleset creates unified records that meet your specific business needs and specifications.
For Salesforce Personalization, real-time identity resolution allows you to collect data as and when there
is a profile match and store details in the data graphs. This data provides deep understanding about an
individual for decision targeting and to generate recommendations.
For the latest data available, you can configure real-time identity resolution for Salesforce
Personalization. See Real-Time Identity Resolution for Personalization.
These instructions refer to the standard identity resolution rulesets, which are batched as scheduled.
11.. Create a ruleset. If you have a ruleset to use, skip this step.
aa.. On the Identity Resolutions tab, click New.
bb.. Select Create New Ruleset, and then click Next.
cc.. Select the data space that you use for marketing, and then select Account or Individual for the
Primary Data Model Object.
dd.. Enter an ID for the ruleset, and then click Next.
This 4-character ID is appended to the API name to distinguish between rulesets.
ee.. Name the ruleset and save your work.
22.. From the identity resolution record, create custom rules.
aa.. In the Match Rules section, click Configure.
bb.. Follow the prompts to define the rules that unify related records.
If your ruleset is for the Individual object, add the Add Recommended Rules to Your Identity
Resolution Ruleset.
33.. Define which object to use for personalization.
aa.. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Basic, and select Basic Settings.
bb.. In the Create an Identity Resolution Ruleset section, select the Unified Individual or Unified Account
object related to your ruleset.
Add Recommended Rules to Your Identity Resolution Ruleset
To get the most out of Identity Resolution, we recommend adding two custom rules to the Individual
object ruleset. First, add a rule to match exact values when a lead converts to a contact. If you use web
tracking on Marketing Cloud Next landing pages or a connected external site, add a rule that attributes
activity to the correct unified individual.
Because Salesforce Personalization supports real-time identity resolution, you can also configure rules
that best support your business needs and use cases. Consider these notes as you develop your strategy.
•
Real-time identity resolution is supported on exact match and exact normalized matching for emails
and phone numbers.
•
Fuzzy matching conditions are batch processed at the data lake level.
•
To make sure that real-time data is applied to identity resolutions, use the unified individual object for
26

=== PAGE 31 ===
Salesforce Personalization Setup Guide: Data 360 for Salesforce Personalization
your profile data graph.
For more recommendations, see Real-Time Identity Resolution for Personalization.
11.. Go to the Identity Resolutions tab, and then open the ruleset that you created for the Individual
object.
22.. Under Match Rules, click Edit, and then click Next.
33.. Click Add Match Rule.
44.. Click Custom Rule, and then click Next.
55.. Name your rule. For example, "Lead to Contact" or "Device Visitor Identification."
66.. Select the match criteria.
aa.. For Data Model Object, select Identity Match.
bb.. For Field, select Identity Match Type.
cc.. For Match Method, select Exact.
77.. Under Advanced Settings, click Configure, and then enter the Identity Match Type for the first custom
rule.
••
For lead to contact conversion, enter lead-to-contact.
••
For web tracking attribution, enter device-to-known.
88.. Click Back To Basic Settings, and then click Next.
99.. To add the second rule, repeat steps 3 through 8 and use the remaining Identity Match Type.
1100.. Save your work.
Create Required Data Graphs
Instead of querying your entire database every time you want to serve personalized content, Data 360
and Salesforce Personalization use data graphs, which organize and store only relevant data. For
Salesforce Personalization, you can use two data graphs: a real-time profile data graph for person details,
and a standard item data graph for product and content information.
You’re in control of what fields appear in the data graph, and you can even add segments, insights, and
related objects for additional context. The mappings in your data graph depend on your organization
and your business goals.
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Data Graphs.
22.. Click New, and click Start from Scratch.
aa.. Choose a near real-time data graph or a real-time data graph.
bb.. Select or enter a value for each property field.
cc.. Click Next.
33.. If you're creating a real-time data graph, set the consumption limits, and click Next.
Consumption limits can impact cost and performance. See Record Caching and User Session Length in
Real-Time Data Graphs.
44.. Select fields from the primary DMO to include in the data graph.
The primary key field, related key qualifier field, and applicable foreign key fields are selected by
default and added to the data graph for the primary DMO and its related objects.
27

=== PAGE 32 ===
Salesforce Personalization Setup Guide: Data 360 for Salesforce Personalization
55.. To add related objects, click + or search for a DMO, and select fields for each related object.
If a DMO has more than one path, choose a path from the list of results. Longer paths add more levels
to your data graph.
To apply filter settings, go to the Filters tab. The available filter settings depend on the DMO category.
In real-time data graphs, the relationship join must use the primary key of the parent data model
object (DMO). If a relationship requires a non–primary key field from the parent DMO, it isn’t
supported for real-time data graph.
66.. To view the structure of the JSON blob, click Preview.
77.. Save your work.
••
To save the data graph without making it active, click Save Draft. The data graph is saved in draft
status.
••
To create the data graph, click Save and Build.
88.. Select a 30 minute refresh interval for the data graph.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Create a Data Graph
Create Calculated Insights for Targeting
Calculated Insights can streamline your personalization strategy for rules-based recommenders and
recommendation filters. For example, add a calculated insight to your item data graph to identify most
viewed or most purchased products or to restrict products for certain recommendations.
11.. In Data Cloud, go to the Calculated Insights tab, and click New.
22.. From the Data Space dropdown, select a data space.
You can use only the data spaces that you have access to. Only the objects that are included in the
data space are available to create a calculated insight.
33.. Click Calculated Insight.
44.. Click Use SQL Authoring and click Next.
55.. Enter the calculated insight name.
The Calculated Insight API Name field is auto-filled.
66.. Enter the new insight SQL query expression.
The SQL statement character limit is 131,021.
aa.. When your insight includes currency measures, you must use the TRY_CONVERT_CURRENCY
28

=== PAGE 33 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
function.
aa.. Use the NOW function to define a relative time window and the SECOND_ADD and SECOND_ADD
functions to create more granular time period logic. See Supported SQL Statements for Insights.
77.. To check whether your SQL expression is valid, click Check Syntax.
If it isn’t valid, you can’t continue.
88.. Click Activate.
99.. From the Schedule dropdown, select a schedule.
1100.. Select the start date and time of the schedule.
1111.. Click Enable.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Create a Calculated Insight Using SQL
Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
Salesforce Personalization in Marketing Cloud Next is a Customer 360 application that connects and
provides personalized experiences across clouds. To use Salesforce Personalization, define the
appropriate permissions, and install and configure Data 360 to work with Personalization data model
objects.
Salesforce Personalization and Data 360
To generate and present unique, personalized content experiences, Salesforce Personalization in
Marketing Cloud Next uses profile and item data graphs, calculated insights, segments, and real-time
behavioral data from Data 360.
Salesforce Personalization Permissions
Configure the right permissions for creating and managing personalization, and empower your users
to leverage Web Personalization Manager and the Personalization Intelligence app.
29

=== PAGE 34 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
Data 360 Prerequisites
Salesforce Personalization requires Data 360. Set up Personalization to work with Data 360.
Add the Web SDK with the Personalization Module to Your Site
Salesforce Personalization requires the Salesforce Interactions SDK with the Personalization module.
Install Salesforce Personalization Data and Personalization Intelligence
Before you can use Salesforce Personalization, you must deploy required foundational data elements
to the Data 360 data space that you want Personalization to use. You can also install a personalization
pipeline intelligence dashboard or deploy optional attribution intelligence data.
Add Custom Fields to the Goods Product Data Model Object
If you want to use the Salesforce Personalization Maximize Revenue recommender for a retail
configuration, add these fields to the Goods Product data model object.
Real-Time Identity Resolution for Personalization
Real-time identity resolution matches information about active users to a unified profile object,
consolidating profile data from different sources. Each unified profile contains all unique contact point
values from all sources, providing a comprehensive view of each individual. Combining real-time
identity resolution and Salesforce Personalization, you can deliver personalized content to individuals
using your app or website within milliseconds.
Using Data Graphs With Personalization
Salesforce Personalization requires the Data 360 profile data graph and item data graph. The profile
data graph provides real-time data to determine personalization eligibility. The item data graph
provides data to the Personalization recommenders that are used to generate recommendations.
Assign a Default Data Graph to a Data Space
You can assign default profile data graphs to specific data spaces, providing selection guidance for
Salesforce Personalization configurations. After the data graph is assigned, it is automatically
populated as the default data graph whenever you select its associated data space in a Salesforce
Personalization configuration.
Define Segments for Salesforce Personalization
You can define real-time segments based on customer interactions to deliver immediate responses.
For example, use segments to assess user engagement in real time to segment customers based on
interests and preferences. You can also define standard segments to determine which products you
want to recommend to individuals. For example, you can exclude products that users have purchased
in the past 15 days from a recommendation list.
Configure Data 360 Insights for Personalization
You can configure Data 360 insights to define and calculate multidimensional metrics for use by
Salesforce Personalization. Using insights, you can define specialized metrics to provide more in-depth
views into customer activity, better understand site or app interaction, or gauge customer satisfaction.
Data Graph Configuration for Objective-Based Recommenders
Supplement your Data 360 data graph setup with the required fields to leverage the Maximize
Revenue or Maximize Clicks objective-based recommenders. These recommenders require certain
object and field configurations in both their profile and item data graphs.
Configure Event Streams and Data Models for Maximize Revenue with Promotions Recommenders
Set up the required event streams and data models to enable the Maximize Revenue with Promotion
recommender to surface high-impact offers based on real-time engagement and purchase patterns.
30

=== PAGE 35 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
Localize Recommendations for Salesforce Personalization
Deliver recommendations in your customers' preferred languages. By mapping locale-related fields to
Data Model Objects (DMOs), you ensure the system returns translated content and appropriate
fallback attributes automatically.
Salesforce Personalization and Data 360
To generate and present unique, personalized content experiences, Salesforce Personalization in
Marketing Cloud Next uses profile and item data graphs, calculated insights, segments, and real-time
behavioral data from Data 360.
•
User interaction data is ingested from the Data 360 Web SDK. Data is simultaneously ingested into the
real-time layer for immediate processing and the standard data layer for regular processing along with
other ingested data.
•
Data 360 identity resolution performs real-time matching to identify a user profile. If the user is
unknown, a profile is created.
•
The known or anonymous profile in the real-time data graph is updated with ingested engagement
and profile event data.
•
Real-time insights and segments are calculated. The real-time profile data graph is updated with
metrics and segmentation results.
•
When a personalization decision is required, Personalization calls the Data 360 profile API to obtain
the updated individual profile from the real-time profile data graph.
See Also
How Salesforce Personalization Works
Salesforce Help: About Salesforce Data 360
Salesforce Help: Data Graphs
Salesforce Help: Create and Activate Segments
Salesforce Help: Enhance Data with Insights
Salesforce Personalization Permissions
Configure the right permissions for creating and managing personalization, and empower your users to
leverage Web Personalization Manager and the Personalization Intelligence app.
Personalization Standard Permission Sets
Use standard, predefined permission sets to define Salesforce Personalization user roles, or clone a
standard permission set and customize it.
Update the Data 360 Connector Permissions
Configure the Data 360 permission set with the appropriate Salesforce Personalization access and
permissions.
31

=== PAGE 36 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
Personalization Standard Permission Sets
Use standard, predefined permission sets to define Salesforce Personalization user roles, or clone a
standard permission set and customize it.
Using Standard Permission Sets
Streamline Salesforce Personalization user permission setup using predefined, standard permission sets.
You can choose permissions for either the Personalization Admin or Personalization User roles.
•
Personalization Admin: For users needing full control to configure and manage Salesforce
Personalization, this permission set provides create, read, update, and delete access.
•
Personalization User: Ideal for roles like channel marketers, this permission set enables users to
create and manage market-focused personalization features without granting unnecessary access to
underlying data configuration.
This table provides details about system permissions granted for each permission set role.
System Permissions Personalization Admin Personalization User
Access Personalization Platform Yes Yes
Allows user access Data 360 Yes Yes
Attribution Model User Yes Yes
Personalization Intelligence User Yes Yes
Use CRM Analytics Templated
Yes Yes
Apps
View Developer Name Yes Yes
This table provides details about the default object settings for each permission set role.
system permissions Personalization admin personalization user
• •
Read Read
Data Graph Definitions
• •
View All View All
• •
Read Read
Data Model Field
• •
View All View All
• •
Data Model Object Read Read
32

=== PAGE 37 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
system permissions Personalization admin personalization user
• •
View All View All
• •
Read Read
Data Model Taxonomy
• •
View All View All
• •
Read Read
Data Model Category
• •
View All View All
• •
Read Read
Data Space Definitions
• •
View All View All
• •
Read Read
Data Space
• •
View All View All
•
Read
•
Create
• •
Edit Read
Engagement Signals
• •
Delete View All
•
View All
•
Modify All
•
Read
•
Read
•
Create
•
Create
•
Edit
•
Experiments Edit
•
Delete
•
Delete
•
View All
•
View All
•
Modify All
•
Read
•
Read
•
Create
•
Create
•
Edit
•
Streaming App Data Connectors Edit
•
Delete
•
Delete
•
View All
•
View All
•
Modify All
33

=== PAGE 38 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
system permissions Personalization admin personalization user
•
Read
•
Create
• •
Edit Read
Personalization Objectives
• •
Delete View All
•
View All
•
Modify All
•
Read
•
Read
•
Create
•
Create
•
Edit
•
Personalization Points Edit
•
Delete
•
Delete
•
View All
•
View All
•
Modify All
•
Read
•
Read
•
Create
•
Create
•
Edit
•
Personalization Recommenders Edit
•
Delete
•
Delete
•
View All
•
View All
•
Modify All
•
Read
•
Read
•
Create
•
Create
•
Content Schemas (previously Edit
•
Edit
•
called Response Templates) Delete
•
Delete
•
View All
•
View All
•
Modify All
•
Read
•
Create
• •
Edit Read
Batch Decisions
• •
Delete View All
•
View All
•
Modify All
Engagement Signal Compound
• •
Read Read
Metrics
34

=== PAGE 39 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
system permissions Personalization admin personalization user
•
Create
•
Edit
• •
Delete View All
•
View All
•
Modify All
•
Read
•
Create
• •
Edit Read
Attribution Models
• •
Delete View All
•
View All
•
Modify All
•
Read
•
Create
• •
Edit Read
Market Segment Definitions
• •
Delete View All
•
View All
•
Modify All
• •
Read Read
Data Object Tag Suggestion
• •
View All View All
Assign a Standard Permission Set
Select a predefined set of permissions to assign Personalization Admin or Personalization user roles to
users.
Customize Permission Sets
While the standard permission sets cover most use cases, you can clone a permission set to create a
custom version with more granular control.
Assign a Standard Permission Set
Select a predefined set of permissions to assign Personalization Admin or Personalization user roles to
users.
35

=== PAGE 40 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create permission sets Manage Profiles and Permission Sets
To assign permission sets
Assign Permission Sets
View Setup and Configuration
11.. In Setup, search for and select Users.
22.. Select a user.
33.. In the Permission Set Assignments section, click Edit Assignments.
44.. Select the Personalization Admin or Personalization User permission set.
55.. Click Add and then save your work.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Manage Permission Set Assignments
Customize Permission Sets
While the standard permission sets cover most use cases, you can clone a permission set to create a
custom version with more granular control.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To manage permission sets: Manage Profiles and Permission Sets
11.. From Setup, go to Permission Sets.
22.. Click Clone next to either the Personalization Admin or Personalization User set.
33.. Give the new permission set a unique name and save it.
44.. Customize the system permissions and object settings as needed.
See Also
Personalization Standard Permission Sets
Update the Data 360 Connector Permissions
Configure the Data 360 permission set with the appropriate Salesforce Personalization access and
permissions.
36

=== PAGE 41 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To update permission sets: Manage Profiles and Permission Sets
11.. In Setup, search for and select Permission Sets.
22.. Select Data Cloud Salesforce Connector.
33.. Grant access to the Personalization platform.
aa.. Under System, select System Permissions.
bb.. Enable Access Personalization Platform.
44.. Save your changes.
55.. On the Permission Set Overview page, under Apps, click Object Settings.
66.. Grant Read and View All Records permissions for these Data 360 objects.
••
Data Graph Definitions
••
Data Model Objects
••
Data Spaces
77.. Grant Read and View All Records permissions for these Personalization objects.
••
Personalization Points
••
Personalization Content Schemas
••
Personalization Recommenders
See Also
Salesforce Help: Enable Object Permissions in Permission Sets
Data 360 Prerequisites
Salesforce Personalization requires Data 360. Set up Personalization to work with Data 360.
Set Up Salesforce CRM Connector for Salesforce Personalization
Bring your Salesforce Personalization data into Data 360 from another Salesforce org using the
Salesforce CRM Connector. You must have admin permissions for the org that you’re connecting.
Data Space Requirements for Personalization
You can connect Salesforce Personalization to any data space. A default data space is provided when
you install Data 360, and you can purchase an add-on license to create more data spaces. When
setting up Data 360 with Personalization ensure that enhanced data space security is enabled in the
data space section of the Data 360 setup page.
Set Up Salesforce CRM Connector for Salesforce Personalization
Bring your Salesforce Personalization data into Data 360 from another Salesforce org using the Salesforce
CRM Connector. You must have admin permissions for the org that you’re connecting.
37

=== PAGE 42 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To use Data 360 for Personalization: Data Cloud Architect
When using the Salesforce CRM Connector, keep these considerations in mind.
•
You can’t use the Salesforce CRM Connector to ingest big objects.
•
Salesforce archives tasks and events that are over 1 year old. When ingesting data, these archived
records aren’t included.
•
The Salesforce CRM Connector uses Bulk API to extract data from Data 360. The concurrency limit for
Bulk API extraction is 25 concurrent requests with a duration of 20 seconds or longer.
11.. In Data 360, click Data Cloud Setup.
22.. In the Quick Find box, enter Salesforce CRM, and select Salesforce CRM.
33.. Click New.
44.. Select the Salesforce org that has Data 360 provisioned, and click Connect.
55.. Enter your login credentials.
66.. Give the connection an identifiable name.
77.. Review the connection details.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Salesforce CRM Connector
Data Space Requirements for Personalization
You can connect Salesforce Personalization to any data space. A default data space is provided when you
install Data 360, and you can purchase an add-on license to create more data spaces. When setting up
Data 360 with Personalization ensure that enhanced data space security is enabled in the data space
section of the Data 360 setup page.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Manage Data Spaces
Salesforce Help: Create a Data Space
Add the Web SDK with the Personalization Module to Your Site
Salesforce Personalization requires the Salesforce Interactions SDK with the Personalization module.
To set up the Salesforce Interactions SDK, see Salesforce Developers: Personalize Web Experiences with
the Salesforce Interactions SDK.
38

=== PAGE 43 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
Install Salesforce Personalization Data and Personalization
Intelligence
Before you can use Salesforce Personalization, you must deploy required foundational data elements to
the Data 360 data space that you want Personalization to use. You can also install a personalization
pipeline intelligence dashboard or deploy optional attribution intelligence data.
Deploy Personalization Foundational Data
Deploying Salesforce Personalization foundational data installs objects and preconfigured insights
required for Personalization to function with Data 360.
Install a Personalization Pipeline Intelligence Dashboard
Install the Personalization Pipeline Intelligence dashboard to view pipeline intelligence personalization
metrics. You can install one pipeline intelligence dashboard in a data space.
Deploy Preconfigured Personalization Attribution Intelligence Data
If you plan to track attribution for add-to-cart, order, or revenue metrics, you can deploy preconfigured
Salesforce Personalization attribution intelligence data to Data 360. Attribution analysis requires the
product browse engagement, shopping cart engagement, and product order engagement objects. If
you don’t plan to use these objects, then deploying personalization attribution objects to Data 360
isn't necessary.
Including Personalization Components in Data Kits
To streamline installations and deploy more complete solutions for Salesforce Personalization, add
packageable personalization components to a Data 360 data kit. You can publish the data kit using
Package Manager, and then deploy your customized solution in Data 360.
Deploy Personalization Foundational Data
Deploying Salesforce Personalization foundational data installs objects and preconfigured insights
required for Personalization to function with Data 360.
To help with required Data 360 setup, a data kit is installed after you purchase Salesforce Personalization.
The data kit contains foundational data necessary for Personalization to work with Data 360.
Important We recommend that you install and configure Data 360 before setting up
Personalization and deploying foundational data.
Deploying Personalization foundational data installs and configures required components and
configurations in the data space that you select.
Requirement Deployment
Data Model Objects (DMOs)
These data model objects (DMOs) are installed:
39

=== PAGE 44 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
Requirement Deployment
•
Personalization Point DMO
•
Personalization Decision DMO
•
Personalization Content Schema DMO
•
Personalizer DMO
•
PersonalizationLog DMO
Connectors and Data
A Salesforce CRM data stream is created for these DMOs:
Streams
•
Personalization Point DMO
•
Personalization Decision DMO
•
Personalization Content Schema DMO
•
Personalizer DMO
•
PersonalizationLog DMO
The ingestion API connector and data stream is created for the
Personalization Log DMO (including the Ingestion API Schema File)
Object Mapping Installed DMOs are fully mapped during data stream creation.
Calculated Insights
These calculated insights are installed, but must be manually
scheduled:
•
Daily Personalization Uniques
•
Daily Personalization Requests
To deploy foundational data:
11.. In the org containing your Personalization install, click Setup and select Personalization Setup.
22.. Under Personalization Setup Options, click the Foundational Setup tab.
33.. In the Deploy Foundational Data section, click Select Data Space.
44.. Select a data space that you want to deploy foundational data to and click Deploy.
Install a Personalization Pipeline Intelligence Dashboard
Install the Personalization Pipeline Intelligence dashboard to view pipeline intelligence personalization
metrics. You can install one pipeline intelligence dashboard in a data space.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To install a Personalization Intelligence dashboard: Personalization Intelligence User permission set
40

=== PAGE 45 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
Important Before installing a Personalization Intelligence dashboard, ensure that the data space
you plan to use contains the Daily Personalization Requests and Daily Personalization Uniques
calculated insights. These calculated insights, and any associated queries, are billable events within
Data 360.
11.. From Setup, click Personalization Setup.
22.. Under Personalization Setup Options, click the Foundational Setup tab.
33.. In the Personalization Pipeline Intelligence Dashboard Setup section, make sure that CRM Analytics is
enabled.
aa.. If CRM Analytics isn't enabled, click Enable to open the Getting Started page in Setup.
bb.. Click Enable CRM Analytics.
44.. In the Install the Personalization Pipeline Intelligence Dashboard section, click Select Data Space.
55.. Select a data space that you want to install the pipeline intelligence dashboard into.
The data space you select must already have Salesforce Personalization foundational data deployed.
66.. Click Install.
Deploy Preconfigured Personalization Attribution Intelligence Data
If you plan to track attribution for add-to-cart, order, or revenue metrics, you can deploy preconfigured
Salesforce Personalization attribution intelligence data to Data 360. Attribution analysis requires the
product browse engagement, shopping cart engagement, and product order engagement objects. If you
don’t plan to use these objects, then deploying personalization attribution objects to Data 360 isn't
necessary.
Important You can deploy attribution intelligence data in any data space running the
Personalization app. The deployment process automatically checks whether you have already
deployed attribution data to the selected data space.
Deploying Personalization attribution intelligence data installs and configures preconfigured attribution
components and configurations in the data space that you select using the identity resolution ruleset you
choose. This data includes necessary data lake and data model objects, and two preconfigured first
touch and last touch attribution models.
To ensure unique object naming, Personalization uses these naming conventions when deploying
preconfigured components:
•
Installed objects use a naming convention of
{dataspacePrefix}_{irSuffix}_{objectBaseName} for data lake objects (DLOs), and
{dataspacePrefix}_{irSuffix}_{objectBaseName}__dlm for data model objects (DMOs).
•
The default dataspace doesn’t have a prefix, so selecting this dataspace doesn’t add a prefix or
underscore to the beginning of the object name. Selecting any other dataspace adds a prefix and
underscore to the object name.
•
When deploying attribution intelligence, you must choose a data space. However, selecting an identity
resolution ruleset is optional. If no identity resolution ruleset is selected, no {irSuffix} value is
41

=== PAGE 46 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
added.
•
If you select an identity resolution ruleset with an empty suffix, Personalization prepends the value
e_s_ as the {irSuffix} value to indicate the empty suffix.
•
API names can’t start with a number. If the identity resolution ruleset starts with a number and the
default dataspace is used (meaning that no data space prefix is included), Personalization adds
n_s_{irSuffix} as the prefix.
Components Attribution Deployment
DLOs
These attribution DLOs are created:
•
{dataspacePrefix}_{irSuffix}_PersnlPointFirstTouchVie
wAttr
•
{dataspacePrefix}_{irSuffix}_PersnlPointLastTouchView
Attr
•
{dataspacePrefix}_{irSuffix}_PersnlContentFirstTouchV
iewAttr
•
{dataspacePrefix}_{irSuffix}_PersnlContentLastTouchVi
ewAttr
DMOs
These attribution DMOs are created:
•
{dataspacePrefix}_{irSuffix}_PersnlPointFirstTouchVie
wAttr__dlm
•
{dataspacePrefix}_{irSuffix}_PersnlPointLastTouchView
Attr__dlm
•
{dataspacePrefix}_{irSuffix}_PersnlContentFirstTouchV
iewAttr__dlm
•
{dataspacePrefix}_{irSuffix}_PersnlContentLastTouchVi
ewAttr__dlm
Attribution Models
These attribution models are created:
•
{dataspacePrefix}_{irSuffix}_DefaultAttribution_FT
•
{dataspacePrefix}_{irSuffix}_DefaultAttribution_LT
The attribution models combine and display both the personalization
point and content first touch and last touch DMO attribution data.
Connectors and Data A Salesforce CRM data stream is created for each attribution DMO.
Streams
Object Mapping Attribution DMOs are fully mapped during the optional attribution
42

=== PAGE 47 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
Components Attribution Deployment
installation.
Calculated Insights No added calculated insights are installed. However, we do provide
some example calculated insights that you can install using SQL.
To deploy preconfigured Personalization attribution intelligence data:
11.. From Setup, click Personalization Setup.
22.. Under Personalization Setup Options, click the Foundational Setup tab.
33.. In the Personalization Attribution Intelligence Setup section, click Select Data Space and IR Ruleset.
44.. Select a data space that you want to deploy attribution intelligence to.
The data space you select must already have Salesforce Personalization foundational data deployed.
55.. (Optional) In the Identity Resolution Ruleset column, select an identity resolution ruleset to use when
deploying the attribution intelligence data.
66.. Click Deploy.
See Also
Salesforce Personalization Analytics
Salesforce Help: Identity Resolution Rulesets
Calculated Insight Example SQL Expressions
Including Personalization Components in Data Kits
To streamline installations and deploy more complete solutions for Salesforce Personalization, add
packageable personalization components to a Data 360 data kit. You can publish the data kit using
Package Manager, and then deploy your customized solution in Data 360.
Packageable Personalization components include:
•
Personalization Recommenders
•
Engagement Signals
•
Personalization Objectives
When you add personalization components to a package, keep these considerations in mind:
•
All required objects that are related with configuring the component are automatically added. For
example, when you add an objective-based recommender to a package, the underlying objective,
engagement signals, mapped DMOs, and data graph relationships are also added.
•
Even though data graph relationships are included when you add a personalization component,
specific related and mapped objects aren’t included with the data graph. Always add any mapped
objects to the data kit you’re creating, or confirm that the objects already exist in the org where you
plan to install the data kit.
•
Packages don’t currently support adding filters.
For more details, see Data Kits in Data 360 Help.
43

=== PAGE 48 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
See Also
Salesforce Help: Create a Data Kit
Salesforce Help: Publish a Data Kit
Salesforce Help: Deploy Data Kit Components in Data 360
Add Custom Fields to the Goods Product Data Model Object
If you want to use the Salesforce Personalization Maximize Revenue recommender for a retail
configuration, add these fields to the Goods Product data model object.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create or change custom fields:
Customize Application
11.. In Data 360, on the Data Model Objects tab, open the Goods Product object.
22.. Refer to Create Custom Fields, and add these fields to the Goods Product object.
Field Label Field API Name Data Type Primary Key
Unit Price UnitPrice__c number No
Image URL ImageUrl__c text No
33.. Save your work.
Real-Time Identity Resolution for Personalization
Real-time identity resolution matches information about active users to a unified profile object,
consolidating profile data from different sources. Each unified profile contains all unique contact point
values from all sources, providing a comprehensive view of each individual. Combining real-time identity
resolution and Salesforce Personalization, you can deliver personalized content to individuals using your
app or website within milliseconds.
When configuring real-time identity resolution, keep these considerations in mind.
•
Before you can use identity resolution, you must map Personalization data lake objects to data model
objects.
•
For real-time personalization, create a custom match rule to match on party identifiers using these
criteria.
Parameter Value
Object Party Identification
44

=== PAGE 49 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
Parameter Value
Field Identification Number
Match Method Exact
Match on Blank checkbox Unchecked
Party Identification Type Review data in the fields mapped to Party Identification Type
and Party Identification Name to determine which values in
Party Identification Name
your data you want to use for matching.
Match Rule Name Provide a unique name, up to 80 characters, for the custom
match rule.
•
Identity resolution uses the same reconciliation rules in all modes, regardless of whether match rules
are scheduled or real time. See Identity Resolution Reconciliation Rules.
•
When using real-time matching, identity resolution compares the value provided by the
Personalization app to unified profile records in the ruleset’s related real-time data graph.
•
When an existing customer is identified, these actions are triggered.
- Real-time insights based on the unified profile are calculated. Results are saved to the real-time data
graph record.
- Real-time segments based on the unified profile are built. Segmentation is saved to the real-time
data graph record.
- The updated real-time data graph record becomes available to the Personalization app.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Unify Source Profiles
Salesforce Help: Identity Resolution Match Rules
Using Data Graphs With Personalization
Salesforce Personalization requires the Data 360 profile data graph and item data graph. The profile data
graph provides real-time data to determine personalization eligibility. The item data graph provides data
to the Personalization recommenders that are used to generate recommendations.
You build a data graph from a primary data model object (DMO) and select objects and fields to include.
Depending on the data graph, you can also add related objects, Data 360 segments, and Data 360
insights. Data from these selected components is processed and transformed into a single, flattened,
read-only data graph record that Personalization uses when making decisions, filtering, and selecting
content for recommendations.
Profile Data Graph
The profile data graph maps individuals to a unified profile as they interact with your website or app. To
accommodate the need for faster response times when interacting with individual activity, the profile
data graph must be a real-time data graph. A real-time data graph provides faster response times than a
45

=== PAGE 50 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
standard data graph, enabling Personalization to resolve individual identities from various sources, map
them to a single unified profile, and deliver personalized content in milliseconds.
When creating the profile data graph, use the Unified Profile object as the data graph’s primary DMO to
take advantage of its real-time identity resolution capabilities. To refine which data is made available to
Personalization for eligibility decisions and recommendation filters, you can include other data options,
such as direct and related objects, segments, and insights.
Item Data Graph
Personalization uses the item data graph to reference content (products, articles, blogs, and so on) for
personalized recommendations and attributes associated with each item for use in filtering. When
creating this data graph, you can use a standard, near real-time data graph configuration. A near real-
time data graph provides data when speed and accuracy are important but real-time, millisecond
response times aren’t required.
A near real-time data graph transforms data into new, materialized views that Personalization can use to
deliver more-targeted recommendation content. This precalculated data results in fewer calls, ensuring
queries respond in near real time.
When defining the item data graph, in addition to the primary data model object, you can include
calculated insights to use in creating rule-based recommendations.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Data Graph Data Structures
Salesforce Help: Build and Manage Data Graphs
Assign a Default Data Graph to a Data Space
You can assign default profile data graphs to specific data spaces, providing selection guidance for
Salesforce Personalization configurations. After the data graph is assigned, it is automatically populated
as the default data graph whenever you select its associated data space in a Salesforce Personalization
configuration.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To assign default data graphs to data spaces: Personalization Admin
When selecting a default data graph for a data space, keep these considerations in mind:
46

=== PAGE 51 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
•
Profile data graph assignments are on by default. However, you can turn them off at any time using the
Data Graph Defaults toggle switch.
•
Turning off data graph defaults using the toggle switch globally disables all default data graph
assignments to all data spaces. You can’t disable only a single default assignment.
•
After you assign a default profile data graph to a data space, you can edit or delete the assignment at
any time.
•
Editing the default profile data graph value doesn’t affect existing Salesforce Personalization
configurations.
To assign a default profile data graph to a data space:
11.. In the org containing your Personalization install, click Setup and select Personalization Setup.
22.. Under Personalization Setup Options, click the Data Graph Defaults tab.
33.. From the Data Space menu, select a data space that you want to assign a default profile data graph to.
44.. From the Default Profile Data Graph menu, select a profile data graph that you want the selected data
space to use when configuring Salesforce Personalization.
55.. Save your work.
You can edit or delete the default data graph assignment at any time.
See Also
Create a Personalization Campaign
Define Segments for Salesforce Personalization
You can define real-time segments based on customer interactions to deliver immediate responses. For
example, use segments to assess user engagement in real time to segment customers based on interests
and preferences. You can also define standard segments to determine which products you want to
recommend to individuals. For example, you can exclude products that users have purchased in the past
15 days from a recommendation list.
Using Segmentation with Salesforce Personalization
Segmentation breaks down your data into segments to help you understand, target, and analyze your
website and app users. You can create different types of segments to work with Salesforce
Personalization.
Create a Segment for Salesforce Personalization
You can create standard or real-time segments to use for decision targeting.
Using Segmentation with Salesforce Personalization
Segmentation breaks down your data into segments to help you understand, target, and analyze your
website and app users. You can create different types of segments to work with Salesforce
Personalization.
When creating segments for use with Personalization, keep these considerations in mind.
47

=== PAGE 52 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
•
You can configure standard segments or real-time segments. The type of segment that you create and
apply to a data graph depends on the data that you’re using the segment for. For example, here are
two kinds of segments.
- Real-time segment on product engagement—Create a real-time segment based on product
engagement, where website visitors who view certain products are added to the segment and
evaluated in real time to provide personalized content.
- Batch segment on product affinity—Create a standard segment based on product style or color
affinity.
•
When creating a segment, use the same data space and data graph that you created for use with
Personalization.
•
To make a real-time segment available in your data graph, add the segment ID and timestamp fields
from the segment membership DMO to your real-time profile data graph.
•
Real-time segmentation doesn’t run if an Account object and an Individual object are included in the
same source data graph.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Create and Activate Segments
Using Data Graphs With Personalization
Create a Segment for Salesforce Personalization
You can create standard or real-time segments to use for decision targeting.
To create a standard segment, see Create a Segment.
To create real-time segments for Salesforce Personalization, use these instructions.
11.. In Data 360, go to the Segments tab and click New.
22.. Select Create with Visual Builder, and select Real-Time Segment.
33.. Click Next.
44.. Enter the segment details.
aa.. Select the data space that the source data graph for this new segment is assigned to.
You can’t assign a segment to a different data space than its source data object.
bb.. For Segment On, select the real-time data graph that you’re basing the segment on.
You can select attributes to filter segment membership from the fields in the data graph.
cc.. Give your segment a unique, easily identifiable name.
dd.. Click Next.
55.. Set the time period over which the real-time segment can be built, and click Next.
66.. Select the data graph fields on which segment membership is filtered.
77.. Save your work.
Configure Data 360 Insights for Personalization
You can configure Data 360 insights to define and calculate multidimensional metrics for use by
Salesforce Personalization. Using insights, you can define specialized metrics to provide more in-depth
48

=== PAGE 53 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
views into customer activity, better understand site or app interaction, or gauge customer satisfaction.
Using Data 360 Insights with Personalization
You can use any Data 360 insight type with Salesforce Personalization. After you configure the insight
types, you add them to data graphs that Personalization uses when making decisions or filtering
personalized recommendation content.
Calculated Insight DMO Name and Field Requirements
How you name calculated insight DMOs and their field references depends on the data space that you
configure them in. If you configure an insight in the default data space, prepend all DMO names and
DMO fields with ssot__. If you’re configuring an insight in a non-default data space, prepend all DMO
names and DMO fields with {prefix}__.
Configure a Real-Time Insight for Individual Interactions (Example)
The Individual Interactions Count real-time insight provides the number of events associated with a
unified profile. You use the Visual Builder to create a real-time insight.
Configure the Top Sellers Standard Insight for Rule-Based Recommenders
Salesforce Personalization enables you to generate recommendations using controlled business logic.
Using a rule-based recommender, you can provide recommendations for top selling, most viewed, co-
bought, or co-browsed products, and much more. To rank and sort recommendable content, rule-
based recommendations rely on inputs from calculated insights that you add to the item data graph.
Using Data 360 Insights with Personalization
You can use any Data 360 insight type with Salesforce Personalization. After you configure the insight
types, you add them to data graphs that Personalization uses when making decisions or filtering
personalized recommendation content.
Calculated Insights
Use a calculated insight to create metrics to better understand things like purchasing or browsing
behavior.
When creating a calculated insight for Personalization, keep these considerations in mind.
•
A calculated insight is near real time and best used when creating metrics associated with items or
products, not for real-time Personalization applications.
•
You can build a calculated insight using either SQL or the Visual Builder.
•
In an Personalization item data graph, you can use a calculated insight as the source for creating rule-
based recommendations.
Real-Time Insights
Use real-time insights to build more complex personalization logic and for tracking things like cumulative
website activity for individuals.
49

=== PAGE 54 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
When creating a real-time insight, keep these considerations in mind.
•
Use a real-time insight for events that require real-time consideration.
•
You can build a real-time insight only on a real-time data graph.
•
Before building a real-time insight, add all the dimensions and measures that you plan to use to the
data graph.
•
You can only build real-time insights using the Visual Builder. You can’t use SQL.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Enhance Data with Insights
Using Data Graphs With Personalization
Calculated Insight DMO Name and Field Requirements
How you name calculated insight DMOs and their field references depends on the data space that you
configure them in. If you configure an insight in the default data space, prepend all DMO names and
DMO fields with ssot__. If you’re configuring an insight in a non-default data space, prepend all DMO
names and DMO fields with {prefix}__.
In this example default data space, the Daily Personalization Uniques calculated insight has ssot__
prepended to all DMO names and fields.
SELECT
DATE_ADD(ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__RequestDateTime__c,0) as Reque
stDate__c,
APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT(ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__IndividualId__c)
as NumUniqueIndividuals__c, APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT(ssot__PersonalizationLo
g__dlm.ssot__PersonalizationRequestId__c) as NumRequests__c,
APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT(ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__PersonalizationI
d__c) as NumPersonalizationRequests__c,
APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT(ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__ContentObjectAPIN
ame__c) as NumUniqueRecordTypes__c,
APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT(ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__ContentObjectReco
rdId__c) as NumUniqueRecords__c
FROM
ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm
GROUP BY
RequestDate__c
In this example non-default data space, the Daily Personalization Uniques calculated insight has
{prefix}__ prepended to all DMO names and DMO fields.
SELECT
DATE_ADD({prefix}_PersonalizationLog__dlm.RequestDateTime__c,0) as RequestD
50

=== PAGE 55 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
ate__c, APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT({prefix}_PersonalizationLog__dlm.IndividualI
d__c) as NumUniqueIndividuals__c,
APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT({prefix}_PersonalizationLog__dlm.PersonalizationReque
stId__c) as NumRequests__c,
APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT({prefix}_PersonalizationLog__dlm.PersonalizationI
d__c) as NumPersonalizationRequests__c,
APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT({prefix}_PersonalizationLog__dlm.ContentObjectAPINam
e__c) as NumUniqueRecordTypes__c,
APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT({prefix}_PersonalizationLog__dlm.ContentObjectRecordI
d__c) as NumUniqueRecords__c
FROM
{prefix}_PersonalizationLog__dlm
GROUP BY
RequestDate__c
Configure a Real-Time Insight for Individual Interactions (Example)
The Individual Interactions Count real-time insight provides the number of events associated with a
unified profile. You use the Visual Builder to create a real-time insight.
11.. In Data 360, use the Visual Builder to create a real-time insight and select Count for the measure.
22.. Search for the Shopping Cart Engagement object, and select the Shopping Cart Engagement Id field.
33.. Click Next.
44.. Name the measure Engagement Count, and click Apply.
55.. To save the aggregate node, click Apply.
66.. Name the insight Individual Interactions Count.
The Insight API Name field is auto-filled.
77.. Click Save and Enable.
Configure the Top Sellers Standard Insight for Rule-Based Recommenders
Salesforce Personalization enables you to generate recommendations using controlled business logic.
Using a rule-based recommender, you can provide recommendations for top selling, most viewed, co-
bought, or co-browsed products, and much more. To rank and sort recommendable content, rule-based
recommendations rely on inputs from calculated insights that you add to the item data graph.
We’ve provided some SQL expressions that you can use when creating insights.
11.. Use the instructions in Create a Calculated Insight Using SQL to create the insight.
22.. For a top selling configuration, create the insight using the SQL expression in the Product Top Sellers
Standard Insight reference.
You can also add the sample SQL code provided in the reference to other insights that you plan to use,
and add them to an item data graph.
51

=== PAGE 56 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
Data Graph Configuration for Objective-Based Recommenders
Supplement your Data 360 data graph setup with the required fields to leverage the Maximize Revenue
or Maximize Clicks objective-based recommenders. These recommenders require certain object and
field configurations in both their profile and item data graphs.
Configure Profile Data Graph for the Maximize Revenue Recommender
To use the maximize revenue recommender with a profile data graph for a retail environment, you add
certain objects and fields to the profile data graph.
Configure Item Data Graph for the Maximize Revenue Recommender
When configuring an item data graph for use with the Maximize Revenue recommender, make sure to
include these related objects and fields. The Maximize Revenue recommender uses the Product Sales
calculated insight. Configure the insight before creating the item data graph.
Configure Profile Data Graph for the Maximize Revenue with Promotion Recommender
To use the Maximize Revenue with Promotions recommender, make sure that you include these
related objects and fields to capture product and promotion engagement data.
Configure Item Data Graph for the Maximize Revenue with Promotion Recommender
When configuring an item data graph for use with the Maximize Revenue with Promotions
recommender, make sure that you include these related objects and fields.
Configure Profile Data Graph for the Maximize Clicks Recommender
To use the maximize clicks recommender, make sure to configure these relationships and add these
objects and fields to the profile data graph.
Configure Item Data Graph for the Maximize Clicks Recommender
When configuring an item data graph for use with the Maximize Clicks recommender, make sure to
include these related objects and fields.
Configure Profile Data Graph for the Maximize Revenue Recommender
To use the maximize revenue recommender with a profile data graph for a retail environment, you add
certain objects and fields to the profile data graph.
Before configuring a profile data graph for use with the maximize revenue recommender:
•
Make sure to create and map these required fields to their respective data model objects (DMOs).
DMO REQUIRED FIELD
SalesOrderProductEngagement SalesOrderProductEngagement.ProductOrderEn
gagementId
ProductOrderEngagement ProductOrderEngagement.Id
•
For the Sales Order Product Engagement object relationships, create a N:1 (ManyToOne) active
relationship between its Product Order Engagement Id field and the Product Order Engagement Id
field of the Product Order Engagement object.
52

=== PAGE 57 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
Object Field Cardinality Related Object Related Field
Sales Order Product Order ManyToOne Product Order Product Order
Product Engagement Engagement Engagement Id
Engagement
•
(Optional) For the Shopping Cart Product Engagement object relationships, create an N:1
(ManyToOne) active relationship between its Shopping Cart Engagement field and the Shopping Cart
Engagement Id field of the Shopping Cart Engagement object.
Object Field Cardinality Related Object Related Field
Shopping Cart Shopping Cart ManyToOne Shopping Cart Shopping Cart
Product Engagement Engagement Engagement Id
Engagement
Use the instructions in Create a Data Graph, but select the fields and objects listed here.
11.. Select Unified Link Individual, and click + to add it.
22.. Select Individual, and click + to add it
33.. Add Product Browse Engagement, Product Order Engagement, and Shopping Cart Engagement to the
data graph.
44.. Next to Product Order Engagement, click + and then select Sales Order Product Engagement.
55.. (Optional) Next to Shopping Cart Engagement, click + and then select Shopping Cart Product
Engagement.
66.. Select these related objects, and add the required fields.
Note Some fields are preselected for some objects. Leave those fields selected.
Related Object Field Name Field API Name
Product Browse Created Date CreatedDate__c
Engagement
Product Id ProductId__c
Product Brand ProductBrand__c
Product Category Name ProductCategoryName__c
Engagement Channel EngagementChannelAction__c
Action
Product Order Created Date CreatedDate__c
Engagement
Individual ID IndividualId__c
Sales Order Product Created Date CreatedDate__c
Engagement
Product Product__c
Ordered Quantity OrderedQuantity__c
53

=== PAGE 58 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
Related Object Field Name Field API Name
Product Price Amount ProductPriceAmount__c
Shopping Cart Created Date CreatedDate__c
Engagement
Product Product__c
Product Brand ProductBrand__c
Product Category Name ProductCategoryName__c
ShoppingCartProductEng Individual Id IndividualId__c
agement
Created Date CreatedDate__c
Product Id ProductId__c
77.. Add the direct or related attributes that you want to use for decision targeting or recommendation
filters.
88.. Add the Data 360 segments or insights that you want to use when making targeting decisions.
99.. To review the structure of the JSON blob, click Preview.
1100.. Save and build the data graph.
Configure Item Data Graph for the Maximize Revenue Recommender
When configuring an item data graph for use with the Maximize Revenue recommender, make sure to
include these related objects and fields. The Maximize Revenue recommender uses the Product Sales
calculated insight. Configure the insight before creating the item data graph.
Use the instructions in the Create a Data Graph Data 360 documentation to create a near real-time item
data graph.
11.. Configure the Product Sales calculated insight.
The Maximize Revenue recommender uses the SQL code included in the calculated insight. See
Configure the Top Sellers Standard Insight for Rule-Based Recommenders.
22.. Create the data graph using these related objects and fields.
Unit Price and Image URL are custom fields. If you don’t see them, add them. See Add Custom Fields
to the Goods Product Data Model Object.
Related Object Field Name Field API Name
Goods Product Product SKU ProductSKU__c
Primary Product Category PrimaryProductCategory__c
Name Name__c
Description Description__c
54

=== PAGE 59 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
Related Object Field Name Field API Name
Is Sellable IsSellable__c
Unit Price UnitPrice__c
Image URL ImageUrl__c
33.. Add the calculated insight containing the required SQL code to the item data graph.
44.. Add the SalesOrderProductEngagement related object and TotalSoldUnits field to the data graph.
55.. To view the JSON blob structure, click Preview.
66.. Click Save and Build.
Configure Profile Data Graph for the Maximize Revenue with Promotion
Recommender
To use the Maximize Revenue with Promotions recommender, make sure that you include these related
objects and fields to capture product and promotion engagement data.
To create a profile data graph, use the instructions in Create a Data Graph, but select the fields and
objects listed here.
11.. Select Unified Link Individual, and click + to add it.
22.. Select Individual, and click +.
33.. Add Product Browse Engagement, Product Order Engagement, Shopping Cart Engagement, and
Website Engagement to the data graph.
44.. (Optional) Next to Shopping Cart Engagement, click + and select Shopping Cart Product
Engagement.
55.. Next to Product Order Engagement, click + and select Sales Order Product Engagement and Offer
Product Order Engagement.
66.. Next to Sales Order Product Engagement, click + and select Offer Sales Order Product Engagement.
77.. (Optional) To include segment membership in filter criteria, look for Unified Individual, click + and
select Unified Individual - Latest.
88.. Select these related objects, and add the required fields.
Note Some fields are preselected for some objects. Leave those fields selected.
Related Object Field Name Field API Name
Product Browse Created Date ssot__CreatedDate__c
Engagement
Product Id ssot__ProductId__c
Individual ID ssot__IndividualId__c
Product Order Created Date ssot__CreatedDate__c
Engagement
Individual ID ssot__IndividualId__c
55

=== PAGE 60 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
Related Object Field Name Field API Name
Adjusted Total Product ssot__AdjustedTotalProductAmount__
Amount c
Sales Order Product Created Date ssot__CreatedDate__c
Engagement
Product ssot__ProductId__c
Shopping Cart Created Date CreatedDate__c
Engagement
Product Product__c
Individual ID ssot__IndividualId__c
Offer Product Order Promotion PromotionId__c
Engagement
OfferSalesOrderProductE Promotion PromotionId__c
ngagement
Website Engagement Created Date ssot__CreatedDate__c
Individual ID ssot__IndividualId__c
Promotion ID ssot__PromotionId__c
Here's a sample profile data graph:
99.. In the profile data graph, add the direct or related attributes that you want to use for decision
targeting or recommendation filters.
1100.. Add the Data 360 segments or insights that you want to use when making targeting decisions.
56

=== PAGE 61 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
1111.. To review the structure of the JSON blob, click Preview.
1122.. Save and build the data graph.
Configure Item Data Graph for the Maximize Revenue with Promotion
Recommender
When configuring an item data graph for use with the Maximize Revenue with Promotions
recommender, make sure that you include these related objects and fields.
To create a near real-time item data graph, use the instructions in Create a Data Graph.
11.. If you are defining promotions within Salesforce, deploy the data streams from the Loyalty
Management data bundle. Otherwise, create your own data streams, so that your content maps to the
Promotion DMO.
22.. Create the data graph and select the Promotion DMO as the root object.
33.. Select every field or relationship that you expect to use as filtering criteria.
For example, to filter out inactive content using IsActive, Start Date, and End Date, add these fields
from the Promotion DMO in the data graph.
Object Field Name Field API Name Required?
Promotions Promotion Id ssot__Id__c Yes
Name ssot__Name__c Optional. Use this field to hold a
promotion title.
Promotional ssot__Promoti Optional. Use this field for a long
Message onalMessage__ promotion description.
c
Start Date ssot__StartDa Optional. Use this field to store the
te__c start date of a promotion. You can use
this field along with the Is After
Current DateTime operator in
Recommendation filters to prevent an
offer from showing until its start date.
End Date ssot__EndDate Optional. Use this field to indicate an
__c expiration date. You can use this field
with the Is Before Current
DateTime operator in
Recommendation filters to prevent an
offer from showing after its end date.
PromotionMarket ssot__Promoti Optional. Use this field to define
Segments onMarketSegmen eligibility criteria of a promotion that
relationship ts__c uses a Data 360 segment.
57

=== PAGE 62 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
44.. To apply advanced filtering against promotions, such as replicating promotion eligibility criteria
defined in Loyalty Management or elsewhere, add the related objects and fields to your item data
graph.
These related objects and fields can then be used as criteria for recommendation filters. For example,
to filter recommendations based on segment eligibility, include the PromotionMarketSegments
relationship field along with the Promotion Market Segment and Market Segment DMOs in the item
data graph. This configuration establishes a clear DMO relationship–Promotion > Promotion Market
Segment > Market Segment. For more examples on eligibility criteria and how to use recommendation
filters to limit visibility, see Example Filters for Promotion Eligibility Criteria.
Here’s a sample of how an item data graph with advanced recommendation filter can look:
55.. To review the structure of the JSON blob, click Preview.
66.. Save your item data graph.
Configure Profile Data Graph for the Maximize Clicks Recommender
To use the maximize clicks recommender, make sure to configure these relationships and add these
objects and fields to the profile data graph.
Before configuring a profile data graph for use with the maximize clicks recommender, for the
Knowledge Article Engagement object relationships, create a N:1 (ManyToOne) active relationship
between its Knowledge Article Version field and the Knowledge Article Version Id field of the Knowledge
Article Version object.
Object Field Cardinality Related Object Related Field
Knowledge Article Knowledge Article ManyToOne Knowledge Article Knowledge Article
58

=== PAGE 63 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
Object Field Cardinality Related Object Related Field
Engagement Version Version Version Id
Use the instructions in Create a Data Graph, but select the fields and objects listed here.
11.. Select Unified Link Individual, and click + to add it.
22.. Select Individual, and click + to add it
33.. Add Knowledge Article Engagement to the data graph.
44.. Next to Knowledge Article Engagement, click + and then select Knowledge Article Version.
55.. Select these related objects, and add the required fields.
Note Some fields are preselected for some objects. Leave those fields selected.
Related Object Field Name Field API Name
Knowledge Article Created Date CreatedDate__c
Engagement
Individual ID IndividualId__c
Key Qualifier Individual KeyQualifierIndividual__c
Key Qualifier Knowledge KeyQualifierKnowledge__c
Article Engagement Id ArticleEngagementId__c
Key Qualifier Knowledge KeyQualifierKnowledgeArticleVersion__c
Article Version
Knowledge Article KnowledgeArticleEgagementId__c
Egagement Id
Knowledge Article KnowledgeArticleVersion__c
Version
Engagement Channel EngagementChannel__c
Engagement Channel EngagementChannelAction__c
Action
Engagement Channel Engagement Channel Type__c
Type
Engagement Verb EngagementVerb__c
Name Name__c
Personalization Personalization__c
Knowledge Article Key Qualifier Knowledge KeyQualifierKnowledgeArticleVersionId__c
Version Article Version Id
Knowledge Article KnowledgeArticleVersionId__c
59

=== PAGE 64 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
Related Object Field Name Field API Name
Version Id
Article Number ArticleNumber__c
Main Industry MainIndustry__c
Name Name__c
66.. Add the direct or related attributes that you want to use for decision targeting or recommendation
filters.
77.. Add the Data 360 segments or insights that you want to use when making targeting decisions.
88.. To review the structure of the JSON blob, click Preview.
99.. Save and build the data graph.
Configure Item Data Graph for the Maximize Clicks Recommender
When configuring an item data graph for use with the Maximize Clicks recommender, make sure to
include these related objects and fields.
Use the instructions in the Create a Data Graph Data 360 documentation to create a near real-time item
data graph.
11.. Create the data graph using these related objects and fields.
Related Object Field Name Field API Name
Knowledge Article Article Number ArticleNumber__c
Version
Created Date CreatedDate__c
Data Source DataSource__c
External URL EsternalUrl__c
Maine Industry MainIndustry__c
Name Name__c
URL Url__c
22.. To view the JSON blob structure, click Preview.
33.. Click Save and Build.
Configure Event Streams and Data Models for Maximize Revenue
with Promotions Recommenders
Set up the required event streams and data models to enable the Maximize Revenue with Promotion
60

=== PAGE 65 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
recommender to surface high-impact offers based on real-time engagement and purchase patterns.
11.. To ingest promotion content into Data 360, create a data stream.
••
If your promotion content is stored in Salesforce, install the Loyalty Management data bundle or
Global Promotions data bundle.
••
If your promotion content is stored outside the Promotions object in Salesforce, Configure and Map
Data Streams from the source and map the resulting data to the Promotion DMO in Data Cloud.
22.. From the SDK event stream, data streams from offline purchases, or both, record the use of
promotions tied to product orders and other engagements.
••
For promotions based on the overall order details, store Promotion ID in the
ProductOrderEngagement DMO.
••
For promotions tied to a line item on the order, store PromotionID in the
SalesOrderProductEngagement DMO.
••
To prioritize promotions with indirect relationship to products, store product interactions, such as
browsing or adding to cart, as engagements in Product Browse and Shopping Cart Engagement
DMOs.
••
For engagements where an individual interacts with a promotion directly, such as clicking to add a
promotion, store promotion engagements in the Website Engagement DMO. Even if promotion
data is not ingested for this purpose, we’ll need this DMO for configuration.
33.. Ingest the following events from the SDK or through another data stream.
DMO Purpose
ProductBrowseEngagement To record product browse events
To record purchase orders and promotions that
ProductOrderEngagement
are used in the orders
To record purchase order line items and, if
SalesOrderProductEngagement applicable, promotions that are tied directly to a
line item
To record addition and removal events on the
shopping cart. Product ID can be recorded here
ShoppingCartEngagement to include line item details of an order, or you
can capture the ProductId in
ShoppingCartProductEngagement.
(Optional) To record items that are added or
removed from a shopping cart. You can use this
DMO or ShoppingCartEngagement to record the
item details. However, if you are planning to
ShoppingCartProductEngagement
consider cases that require an engagement-
aware cart, such as an abandoned cart, we
recommend using
ShoppingCartProductEngagement.
Website Engagement To record website engagement events, such as
61

=== PAGE 66 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
DMO Purpose
page browse, views, and clicks. If users can
engage with promotions directly, for instance
clicking to add a promotion, then we record such
activities.
To record the relationship between an order and
Offer Product Order Engagement
promotions or offers applied to the order
To record the relationship between an order line
Offer Sales Order Product Engagement items and promotions or offers applied to the
order line items
44.. Map the promotion and engagement DMOs based on the table and your business needs.
••
For ProductOrderEngagement and SalesOrderProductEngagement, map Offer Product Order
Engagement DMO and Offer Sales Order Product Engagement DMO, respectively. This creates a one
to many relationship between the order and order line items.
••
Map Offer Product Order Engagement DMO and Offer Sales Order Product Engagement DMO to
the Promotion DMO.
••
For ProductBrowseEngagement, ShoppingCartEngagement, and Website Engagement DMOs,
record the promotion ID directly on the engagement record as it will maintain a one to one
relationship. The promotionID on these DMOs must then map to the Promotion DMO directly.
DMO Field Cardinality Related DMO Related Field
Product Order Individual ID ManyToOne Individual Individual.Id
Engagement
Offer Product Product Order ManyToOne ProductOrderEnga Product Order
Order Engagement ID gement Engagement ID
Engagement
Promotion ID ManyToOne Promotion Promotion ID
Offer Sales Order Sales Order ManyToOne Sales Order Sales Order
Product Product Product Product
Engagement Engagement ID Engagement Engagement ID
Promotion ID ManyToOne Promotion Promotion ID
Sales Order Product Order ManyToOne Product Order Product Order
Product Engagement Engagement Engagement.Id
Engagement
Product ManyToOne Product Product ID
Individual ID ManyToOne Individual Individual ID
Product Browse Product SKU ManyToOne Product Product ID
Engagement
Shopping Cart Product ManyToOne Product Product ID
62

=== PAGE 67 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
DMO Field Cardinality Related DMO Related Field
Engagement
Shopping Cart Individual ID ManyToOne Individual Individual ID
Product
Product ManyToOne Product Product SKU
Engagement
(optional) ShoppingCartEng ManyToOne Shopping Cart ShoppingCartEng
agementEventId Engagement agementId
Website Individual ID ManyToOne Individual Individual ID
Engagement
Product ManyToOne Product Product ID
Promotion ManyToOne Promotion Promotion ID
See Also
Promotion DMO
Product Order Engagement DMO
Sales Order Product DMO
Shopping Cart Engagement DMO
Shopping Cart Product Engagement DMO
Product Browse Engagement DMO
Website Engagement DMO
Offer Product Order Engagement DMO
Offer Sales Order Product Engagement DMO
Localize Recommendations for Salesforce Personalization
Deliver recommendations in your customers' preferred languages. By mapping locale-related fields to
Data Model Objects (DMOs), you ensure the system returns translated content and appropriate fallback
attributes automatically.
Using Localization for Personalization
Deliver language-consistent recommendations to global audiences by using automatic attribute
fallbacks and translation schemas.
Configure Localization for Salesforce Personalization
Configure localization in Salesforce Personalization Setup to deliver recommendations in your
customers' preferred languages.
Using Localization for Personalization
Deliver language-consistent recommendations to global audiences by using automatic attribute fallbacks
and translation schemas.
Maintain a single source of truth across your global data spaces by localizing only the fields that require
63

=== PAGE 68 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
translation. This approach ensures that non-localizable data in your Root Data Model Object (DMO), like
pricing or SKUs, remains consistent while the system dynamically serves translated content where it
matters most.
Key Considerations
When setting up localization, keep these considerations in mind:
•
Global Control: You can enable or disable localization at any time across all data spaces to manage
feature rollout.
•
Locale Matching: Personalization uses the locale field you select during item definition to match
requests to your customer’s preferred language.
•
Reliable Fallbacks: To prevent gaps in the user experience, the system automatically uses customer
profile data or item defaults if a specific locale isn't provided.
Localization Benefits
Review the benefits of using localization to maintain a single source of truth across your global data.
Benefit Description
Ensure Language Consistency Prevent mixed-language experiences, such as a Spanish title with
English body text, by using precise translation schemas.
Simplify Data Management Save time by automatically pulling non-localizable data, such as
prices or SKUs, directly from the Root DMO.
Respect Localization Intent Maintain more granular control by ensuring that intentionally blank
fields do not trigger an accidental fallback.
Localization Fallback Logic
To ensure a consistent user experience, Personalization evaluates locale data in two stages: first by
determining the overall locale, and then by evaluating specific attribute data within the DMO.
Hierarchy for Determining the Locale
If a decision request doesn't specify a locale, the system follows this order to select the language:
11.. Profile Attribute: The system uses the locale value from the customer’s profile data graph.
22.. Default Value: If no profile value is found, the system uses the default value from the recommended
DMO item.
Field-Level Fallback Actions
Review these system actions and results to understand field-level fallback behavior:
64

=== PAGE 69 ===
Salesforce Personalization Engagement Signals and Metrics
Attribute Status System Action Result
Absent from the Returns the value from The field populates with default data, such as a
schema the default locale in the global inventory count or a default image.
Root DMO.
Defined but left blank Treats the blank as an The field remains blank. No fallback occurs to
intentional choice. ensure your intentional formatting is preserved.
See Also
Configure Localization for Salesforce Personalization
Configure Localization for Salesforce Personalization
Configure localization in Salesforce Personalization Setup to deliver recommendations in your customers'
preferred languages.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure localization: Change and Edit
11.. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Personalization, and then select Personalization Setup.
If you already have the recommender open, go to the next step.
22.. Under Personalization Setup Options, click the Advanced Setup tab.
33.. In the Localization section, turn on Localization.
44.. Click Select Data Space.
55.. Select a data space that contains the data graphs you want to localize.
Note The selected data space must have Salesforce foundational data already deployed.
66.. Define the item localization Data Model Object (DMO):
••
Select an item data graph containing a DMO with a locale-related field.
••
Select the localization DMO and field used to determine the locale.
77.. (Optional) Define a profile locale fallback value to determine a locale when a decision request doesn't
include one:
••
Select a profile data graph containing a DMO with a locale-related field.
••
Select the locale-related attribute used to determine the fallback locale.
88.. Click Save.
Engagement Signals and Metrics
Create engagement signals and metrics to track interactions across channels as individuals engage with
your brand. You can then use these engagement signals when creating objective-based recommenders
to deliver personalized recommendations with Salesforce Personalization in Marketing Cloud Next.
65

=== PAGE 70 ===
Salesforce Personalization Engagement Signals and Metrics
Engagement Signals
An engagement signal is a set of data that provides information about an engagement action
performed by an individual. Examples of engagement signals include web clicks, opening or
responding to an email response, or downloading a PDF.
Engagement Signal Metrics and Compound Metrics
Create additional metrics or compound metrics to track and view how individuals are interacting with
your personalized content.
Engagement Signals
An engagement signal is a set of data that provides information about an engagement action performed
by an individual. Examples of engagement signals include web clicks, opening or responding to an email
response, or downloading a PDF.
Example Engagement Signals
Salesforce Personalization provides several standard engagement DMOs that you can use when
creating engagement signals. Use these examples to recreate engagement signals to track individual
engagement with your personalizations, or use them to familiarize yourself with how to construct your
own engagement signals.
Configure an Engagement Signal
Engagement signals are configured using a primary engagement data model object (DMO). You then
use mapped DMO fields to identify and track individual engagements.
Example Engagement Signals
Salesforce Personalization provides several standard engagement DMOs that you can use when creating
engagement signals. Use these examples to recreate engagement signals to track individual engagement
with your personalizations, or use them to familiarize yourself with how to construct your own
engagement signals.
Example: Product View
This engagement signal monitors for and tracks catalog product (object) views by individuals.
Configuring this engagement signal creates a default view count metric.
Example: Product Click
This engagement signal monitors for and tracks catalog product (object) click engagement by
individuals. Configuring this engagement signal creates a default click count metric.
Example: Add To Cart
This engagement signal monitors for and tracks when items are added to the cart by individuals.
Configuring this engagement signal creates a default add-to-cart count metric.
Example: Product Order
This engagement signal monitors for and tracks catalog product (object) order engagement by
individuals. Configuring this engagement signal creates a default product order count metric.
Example: Knowledge Article Click
66

=== PAGE 71 ===
Salesforce Personalization Engagement Signals and Metrics
This engagement signal monitors for and tracks knowledge article click engagement by individuals.
Configuring this engagement signal creates a default article click count metric.
Example: Product View
This engagement signal monitors for and tracks catalog product (object) views by individuals.
Configuring this engagement signal creates a default view count metric.
Important The settings provided in this example reflect those in the recommended Salesforce
Interactions SDK setup configuration.
Configuration Sequence Parameter Setting
Record Properties Data Space default
Engagement DMO Product Browse Engagement
Name Product View
API Name ProductView
Field Parameters User Identifier Product Browse Engagement >
Individual
Item Identifier (Optional) Product Browse Engagement >
Product SKU
Timestamp Identifier Product Browse Engagement >
Engagement Date Time
Unique Engagement Identifier Product Browse Engagement >
Product Browse Engagement Id
Filter Condition All Conditions Are Met
Filter Resource Product Browse Engagement >
Engagement Channel Action
Operator Is Equal To
Value catalog-object-view-start
See Also
Example Engagement Signals
Configure an Engagement Signal
Example: Product Click
This engagement signal monitors for and tracks catalog product (object) click engagement by
individuals. Configuring this engagement signal creates a default click count metric.
67

=== PAGE 72 ===
Salesforce Personalization Engagement Signals and Metrics
Important The settings provided in this example reflect those in the recommended Salesforce
Interactions SDK setup configuration.
Configuration Sequence Parameter Setting
Record Properties Data Space default
Engagement DMO Product Browse Engagement
Name Product Click
API Name ProductClick
Field Parameters User Identifier Product Browse Engagement >
Individual
Item Identifier (Optional) Product Browse Engagement >
Product SKU
Timestamp Identifier Product Browse Engagement >
Engagement Date Time
Unique Engagement Identifier Product Browse Engagement >
Product Browse Engagement Id
Filter Condition All Conditions Are Met
Filter Resource Product Browse Engagement >
Engagement Channel Action
Operator Is Equal To
Value catalog-object-click
See Also
Example Engagement Signals
Configure an Engagement Signal
Example: Add To Cart
This engagement signal monitors for and tracks when items are added to the cart by individuals.
Configuring this engagement signal creates a default add-to-cart count metric.
Important The settings provided in this example reflect those in the recommended Salesforce
Interactions SDK setup configuration.
Configuration Sequence Parameter Setting
Record Properties Data Space default
68

=== PAGE 73 ===
Salesforce Personalization Engagement Signals and Metrics
Configuration Sequence Parameter Setting
Engagement DMO Shopping Cart Product
Engagement
Name Add To Cart
API Name AddToCart
Field Parameters User Identifier Shopping Cart Product
Engagement > Individual
Item Identifier (Optional) Shopping Cart Product
Engagement > Product
Timestamp Identifier Shopping Cart Product
Engagement > Engagement Date
Time
Unique Engagement Identifier Shopping Cart Product
Engagement > Product Browse
Engagement Id
Filter Condition All Conditions Are Met
Filter Resource Shopping Cart Product
Engagement > Engagement
Channel Action
Operator Is Equal To
Value Add To Cart
See Also
Example Engagement Signals
Configure an Engagement Signal
Example: Product Order
This engagement signal monitors for and tracks catalog product (object) order engagement by
individuals. Configuring this engagement signal creates a default product order count metric.
Important The settings provided in this example reflect those in the recommended Salesforce
Interactions SDK setup configuration.
Configuration Sequence Parameter Setting
Record Properties Data Space default
Engagement DMO Product Order Engagement
69

=== PAGE 74 ===
Salesforce Personalization Engagement Signals and Metrics
Configuration Sequence Parameter Setting
Name Product Order
API Name ProductOrder
Field Parameters User Identifier Product Order Engagement >
Individual
Item Identifier (Optional) Sales Order Product
Engagement > Product
Timestamp Identifier Product Order Engagement >
Engagement Date Time
Unique Engagement Identifier Product Order Engagement >
Product Order Engagement Id
Filter Condition All Conditions Are Met
Filter Resource Product Order Engagement >
Engagement Channel Action
Operator Is Equal To
Value Purchase
See Also
Example Engagement Signals
Configure an Engagement Signal
Example: Knowledge Article Click
This engagement signal monitors for and tracks knowledge article click engagement by individuals.
Configuring this engagement signal creates a default article click count metric.
Configuration Sequence Parameter Setting
Record Properties Data Space default
Engagement DMO Knowledge Article Engagement
Name Article Click
API Name ArticleClick
Field Parameters User Identifier Knowledge Article Engagement
> Individual
Item Identifier (Optional) Knowledge Article Engagement
> Knowledge Article Version Id
70

=== PAGE 75 ===
Salesforce Personalization Engagement Signals and Metrics
Configuration Sequence Parameter Setting
Timestamp Identifier Knowledge Article Engagement
> Created Date
Unique Engagement Identifier Knowledge Article Engagement
> Knowledge Article
Engagement Id
Filter Condition All Conditions Are Met
Filter Resource Knowledge Article Engagement
> Engagement Channel Action
Operator Is Equal To
Value catalog-object-click-start
See Also
Example Engagement Signals
Configure an Engagement Signal
Configure an Engagement Signal
Engagement signals are configured using a primary engagement data model object (DMO). You then use
mapped DMO fields to identify and track individual engagements.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure engagement signals: Engagement Signals
When creating and using engagement signals, keep these considerations in mind.
•
Engagement signals are used when configuring various PersonalizationSalesforce Personalization
features. These features include custom recommender objectives, custom attribution models, and
personalization experiments. We recommend that you define engagement signals before configuring
these features.
•
You can configure engagement signals using only DMOs categorized as Engagement.
•
You can select from only mapped DMOs and DMO fields.
•
You can configure an engagement signal using the fields of the primary DMO and related DMOs with a
cardinality of one-to-one or many-to-one.
•
If you choose to configure an engagement signal using fields from a related DMO, you can use fields
from only one related DMO.
•
You must specify a value for the item identifier if you plan to use the engagement signal in custom
objective-based recommenders.
•
By default, a count-based engagement signal metric is created for each engagement signal that you
71

=== PAGE 76 ===
Salesforce Personalization Engagement Signals and Metrics
configure. This count metric provides insights on how individuals are interacting with personalized
content.
To configure an engagement signal:
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Engagement Signals.
22.. Click New.
33.. Choose how you want to get started.
••
To create the engagement signal from scratch, select Manual Setup and click Next.
••
To import an engagement signal from an installed data kit, select Use a Data Kit and click Next.
44.. For the Manual Setup configuration method:
aa.. Select the data space that contains the DMO you want to use as an engagement signal source.
bb.. Select an engagement DMO to use for your engagement signal tracking. The Engagement Data
Model Object menu presents only DMOs in the data space that are mapped and of the category
Engagement.
cc.. (Optional) Select the checkbox to make this engagement signal available in flows. Related object
fields are unsupported in flows. Selecting this checkbox excludes any related objects from being
selected as the engagement DMO. When selected, this option enables use of the engagement
signal for both Salesforce Personalization as well as Marketing Cloud Next automation-event-
triggered flows.
dd.. Click Next.
ee.. Select the fields from the DMO, or from one related DMO, to use to define the new engagement
signal. Only mapped fields are provided as selectable options.
identifier description
Select a general user identifier for the
engagement signal. This value is often an
identifiable field from the DMO that you're
User Identifier
using for the engagement signal, like an email
address, address, phone number, or some other
user identifier field.
Select a timestamp identifier that you want the
engagement signal to use. For example, a date
Timestamp Identifier
or time value that you want the engagement
signal to capture when an engagement occurs.
Select an item identifier that the engagement
signal can use to better isolate the engagement.
Item Identifier For example, a specific item or data point that
you want the engagement signal to use when
determining a specific individual engagement.
Select a unique event identifier for the
Event Identifier engagement signal. This selection enables you
to group identical engagements and eliminate
72

=== PAGE 77 ===
Salesforce Personalization Engagement Signals and Metrics
identifier description
duplicate records.
ff.. Click Next.
gg.. Define how events are counted.
By default, each engagement event is counted as a single, discrete event. However, you can choose
to combine discrete engagement events, using added fields to uniquely identify them, and count
them as a single event.
Option Description
Count each event as a discrete engagement Events are counted as individual occurrences,
signal even if the same person triggers the same event
each time. For example, total email clicks.
Define added fields to group repeat events, and Repeated events are identified using added
count them as one signal fields, combined, and counted as a single event.
For example, you can define a unique email
click as a combination of an individual ID, email
bulk message ID, and a click event.
hh.. If you select the option to group repeat events using additional fields, select the fields that you want
to use to uniquely identify the event occurrence.
For example, you can add fields to further define what makes an event unique. These fields can
include individual IDs, personalization-focused IDs, specific product IDs or descriptions, and so on.
55.. For the Use a Data Kit configuration method:
aa.. Select a data space.
bb.. Search for or select a data kit to view its contents.
cc.. Select the engagement signal to import.
dd.. Click Next.
ee.. (Optional) Select the checkbox to make this engagement signal available in flows. Related object
fields are unsupported in flows. Selecting this checkbox excludes any related objects from being
selected as the engagement DMO. When selected, this option enables use of the engagement
signal for both Salesforce Personalization as well as Marketing Cloud Next automation-event-
triggered flows.
ff.. Proceed through the confirmation screens until you reach the filters page, and then define your
conditions.
Note
••
Before installing from a data kit, verify that the required data model objects (DMOs) and field
mappings exist in the org.
••
Only unmanaged data kits are available for this configuration method. If no unmanaged data
kits contain the object, create it manually.
66.. (Optional) Define filters to better identify specific engagements. By default, no filters are used and the
engagement signal applies to all engagements as defined, and using the field selections made.
aa.. Click Add Condition.
73

=== PAGE 78 ===
Salesforce Personalization Engagement Signals and Metrics
bb.. Select an option from Condition Requirements.
Option Description
All Conditions Are Met If all conditions are met for an individual, the
engagement is captured. This selection uses the
AND operator.
Any Conditions Is Met If any one of the conditions is met for an
individual, the engagement is captured. This
selection uses the OR operator.
cc.. Choose a filter resource.
Select an object and field that you want to use to filter engagement options. The filter resource is a
field associated with the DMO, or the related DMO, that you selected as the engagement object.
dd.. Configure the operator and value that you want to use for this filter.
Operator Supported Data Type Description
Is Equal To All Matches a provided string.
Is Less Than Number, Percent, Currency Matches values that are lower
than the specified value.
Is Less than Or Equal To Number, Percent, Currency Matches values that are lower
than or equal to the specified
value.
Is Greater Than Number, Percent, Currency Matches values that are higher
than the specified value.
Is Greater Than Or Equal To Number, Percent, Currency Matches values that are higher
than or equal to the specified
values.
Is Not Equal To String, Number, Percent, Matches a provided string.
Currency
Has No Value All Evaluates for a null or missing
value.
Has Value All Evaluates for any existing value.
ee.. (Optional) Add more conditions to continue defining the engagement.
77.. Name the engagement signal.
The API name is auto-generated.
88.. Save your work.
See Also
Example Engagement Signals
Create a Custom Objective
74

=== PAGE 79 ===
Salesforce Personalization Engagement Signals and Metrics
Configure an Objective-Based Recommender
Engagement Signal Metrics and Compound Metrics
Engagement Signal Metrics and Compound Metrics
Create additional metrics or compound metrics to track and view how individuals are interacting with
your personalized content.
Example Engagement Signal Metrics
Use these examples to create engagement signal metrics. You can use count metrics to define
compound engagement signal rate metrics.
Configure an Engagement Signal Metric
Engagement signal metrics enable you to track and view user engagement with your personalized
content. Use these metrics when creating custom objectives for objective-based recommenders and
when creating attribution configurations.
Example Engagement Signal Compound Metrics
Engagement signal compound metrics are more complex metrics that are composed of two single
engagement signal metrics.
Configure an Engagement Signal Compound Metric
Engagement signal compound metrics are rate metrics. You create them by combining two single
metrics, a numerator and a denominator, using a Divide By function to create a ratio.
Example Engagement Signal Metrics
Use these examples to create engagement signal metrics. You can use count metrics to define
compound engagement signal rate metrics.
Note The count metrics in this table are created automatically if you configure the engagement
signals described in Example Engagement Signals.
Engagement Signal Engagement Signal Aggregation Function Field Selection
Metric Name
Product View Count ProductView Count Product Browse
Engagement > Product
Browse Engagement Id
Product View Count ProductClick Count Product Browse
Engagement > Product
Browse Engagement Id
Add to Cart Add to Cart Count Count Shopping Cart Product
Engagement >
Shopping Cart Product
75

=== PAGE 80 ===
Salesforce Personalization Engagement Signals and Metrics
Engagement Signal Engagement Signal Aggregation Function Field Selection
Metric Name
Engagement Id
Product Order Revenue Sum Product Order
Engagement > Adjusted
Total Product Order
Amount
Article Click Click Count Count Knowledge Article
Engagement >
Knowledge Article
Engagement Id
See Also
Configure an Engagement Signal Metric
Configure an Engagement Signal Compound Metric
Configure an Engagement Signal Metric
Engagement signal metrics enable you to track and view user engagement with your personalized
content. Use these metrics when creating custom objectives for objective-based recommenders and
when creating attribution configurations.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure engagement signal metrics: Engagement Signals
When creating engagement signal metrics, keep these considerations in mind.
•
For each engagement signal that you configure, a count-based engagement signal metric is created by
default. You can use this metric like any other engagement signal metric that you add to the
engagement signal.
•
For count metric aggregation, note that ingesting the same event from multiple data streams can
result in duplicate events being counted in the DMO. If you expect duplication to occur in your
engagement DMOs, we recommend using DISTINCT to avoid duplicate counting.
•
You can select how to quantify, or aggregate, metrics using various operators.
Metric Aggregation Description Example Supported In
COUNT Counts all entries for a The total number of - Custom Objectives
metric. times an email link is - Custom Attribution
clicked. Configurations
In practice, this value is - Experimentation
76

=== PAGE 81 ===
Salesforce Personalization Engagement Signals and Metrics
Metric Aggregation Description Example Supported In
determined by
counting the total
number of
engagement events
(rows) that appear in
the email engagement
DMO.
SUM Adds data values across Purchases greater than - Custom Attribution
all event occurrences. a specified value. Configurations
- Experimentation
AVG Averages data values Average sales less than - Custom Attribution
across all event a specified value. Configurations
occurrences. - Experimentation
DISTINCT Counts the number of The number of unique - Custom Attribution
unique values after products added to a Configurations
eliminating duplicate cart. - Experimentation
entries. In practice, this value is
determined by
counting distinct
products added to a
cart using the
engagement asset ID
from the shopping cart
engagement DMO.
SELECT Enables models to Using the Net Order - Custom Objectives
aggregate and consider Amount field from the - Custom Attribution
the value of an Shopping Cart Configurations (API
attribute for training, Engagement DMO to only)
not just it’s count. maximize its value in a
custom objective
recommender.
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Engagement Signals.
22.. Open an engagement signal that you want to add an engagement signal metric to.
33.. In the engagement signal object Related tab, from the Engagement Signal Metrics list, click New.
44.. Name the engagement signal metric and provide an optional description.
55.. Select a metric aggregation from the Aggregate menu.
66.. Select a DMO field that you want to track and view.
77.. Save your work.
See Also
77

=== PAGE 82 ===
Salesforce Personalization Engagement Signals and Metrics
Example Engagement Signal Metrics
Configure an Engagement Signal Compound Metric
Example Engagement Signal Compound Metrics
Engagement signal compound metrics are more complex metrics that are composed of two single
engagement signal metrics.
This release supports using only count metrics with a divide by operator to create compound rate
metrics. For example, you can create compound metrics using count metrics for clicks per views, views
per cart add, email opens per email deliveries, and so on.
See Also
Configure an Engagement Signal Compound Metric
Configure an Engagement Signal Metric
Configure an Engagement Signal Compound Metric
Engagement signal compound metrics are rate metrics. You create them by combining two single
metrics, a numerator and a denominator, using a Divide By function to create a ratio.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure engagement signal compound Engagement Signals
metrics:
When creating engagement signal compound metrics, keep these considerations in mind.
•
Before creating a compound metric, make sure to have at least two single metrics configured for the
engagement signal that you’re creating the compound metric on.
•
The single metric fields that you select to build a compound metric must logically function as a ratio
for a rate-focused compound metric. For example, recommender clicks/recommender views to build
a recommendations click-through rate compound metric.
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Engagement Signals.
22.. Open an engagement signal that you want to add an engagement signal compound metric to.
33.. In the engagement signal object Related tab, from the Engagement Signal Compound Metrics list,
click New.
44.. Name the engagement signal compound metric and provide an optional description.
The Engagement Signal Compound Metric API Name is auto-generated.
55.. From the first Engagement Signal Metric menu, select a metric that you want to use as the numerator
for the compound metric.
66.. Select the Divide By operator from the Operator menu.
77.. From the last Engagement Signal Metric menu, select a metric that you want to use as the
78

=== PAGE 83 ===
Salesforce Personalization Calculated Affinities
denominator for the compound metric.
88.. Save your work.
See Also
Example Engagement Signal Compound Metrics
Configure an Engagement Signal Metric
Calculated Affinities
Calculated affinities enable you to gauge an individual’s interest in objects and their selected attributes.
The output of a calculated affinity provides a numerical score to indicate preference. Personalization uses
this value in segmentation, decision targeting, recommendation filtering, and when grounding Salesforce
AI Agents to improve decision-making, enhance personalized output, and build trust.
Using Calculated Affinities
Calculated affinities (CAs) measure characteristics that indicate a natural interest in or liking of an
object. You can create real-time calculated affinities, and use them with personalization decision
targeting rules, segments, and recommendation filters, to generate highly-focused personalized
content based on customer preferences.
How Affinities are Calculated
Personalization uses a standard summation model when calculating affinity. This model uses various
factors that dictate affinity scoring output.
Configure a Real-Time Calculated Affinity
Define calculated affinity within specific boundaries. These boundaries include the selected data
space, objects, and fields that you want to calculate affinity against, and within a defined engagement
timeframe. You also specify the strength of an engagement signal, and the relative impact the signal
has when calculating the affinity.
Using Calculated Affinities
Calculated affinities (CAs) measure characteristics that indicate a natural interest in or liking of an object.
You can create real-time calculated affinities, and use them with personalization decision targeting rules,
segments, and recommendation filters, to generate highly-focused personalized content based on
customer preferences.
For example, a calculated affinity’s output scores can show that a customer is more interested in one
product, brand, category, etc. over another. Leveraging Data 360 calculated insights (CIs), you can use
calculated affinity numerical score output for decision targeting, recommendation filtering, and Data 360
segmentation.
When creating calculated affinities, keep these considerations in mind:
•
Calculated affinities use Data 360 calculated insights to power affinity scoring calculations. When you
create a new calculated affinity, a corresponding calculated insight is generated automatically in Data
79

=== PAGE 84 ===
Salesforce Personalization Calculated Affinities
360 for the DMO field you select to calculate an affinity score against.
•
Each generated calculated insight that is named as a combination of the calculated affinity object
name and attribute field name.
For example, creating a calculated affinity called Product Affinity using the goods product DMO brand
attribute generates a calculated insights called Product Affinity Brand.
Important Calculated insight names are limited to 40 characters. Creating long calculated affinity
names, or selecting attributes with long names, can result in truncated calculated insight names.
•
Calculated Insights generated for real-time calculated affinity models are automatically added to the
real-time profile data graph when you save the affinity.
•
Generated calculated insights provide two scoring values—a base affinity score and a raw affinity score.
The base affinity score can range from 0 through 100. The raw affinity score has no bound, enabling it
to have negative values or exceed 100.
•
After you create a calculated affinity, you can use the calculated insights generated when you save the
affinity when defining various, personalization-related features and functions:
- Data 360 segmentation—Reference calculated affinities in Data 360 segmentation by selecting any
calculated insights generated when you created the affinity model.
- Personalized recommendations—Each calculated insight generated when you save a calculated
affinity becomes available for use when defining recommendation filters. For example, reference a
brand affinity CI to only return products with a brand that matches high affined brands of the
individual.
- Decision targeting—Calculated insights generated when you create a calculated affinity are available
for use in decision targeting logic along with other calculated insights mapped in the profile data
graph. Using these calculated insights, for example, you can target customers with a high affinity
toward a specific topic or brand.
- Agent Grounding–Affinity scores are excellent data points for agents to reference as context data
when attempting to execute actions with increased relevance.
See Also
Calculated Affinities
How Affinities are Calculated
Configure a Real-Time Calculated Affinity
How Affinities are Calculated
Personalization uses a standard summation model when calculating affinity. This model uses various
factors that dictate affinity scoring output.
factor score effect
Engagement Signals Engagement signals defined on the calculated
affinity object function as event definitions. When
an engagement signal is registered that is
referenced in a calculated affinity (eg. product
view), the affinity score is automatically updated.
80

=== PAGE 85 ===
Salesforce Personalization Calculated Affinities
factor score effect
Real-time CA’s update in real-time.
Signal Strength Engagement signals strength is classified as high,
medium, or low. A high strength signal affects a
score by 5 points, a medium signal by 3 points,
and a low signal by 1 point. Signal strength values
impact the overall score in either the positive or
negative direction, depending on their individual
impact settings.
Signal Impact You can define whether engagement signals have
a positive or negative impact on the affinity score.
For example, you can define certain signals (views,
add to carts, or purchases) as positive, and other
signals (returns or complaints) as negative.
Positive signals add points to the affinity score.
Negative signals subtract points from the score.
Lookback Window The lookback window defines how far back
engagement events are referenced for affinity
calculations. For example, for a lookback of 30
days, the affinity calculation includes only
engagement events that occurred in the last 30
days.
Decay
Affinity decay considers how recently, and how
often, engagement occurs within the lookback
window, and uses an exponential model when
calculating the decay of the affinity value.
Following the calculated insight refresh schedule
(every hour for real-time calculated insights),
Personalization calculates affinity decay using a
batch process. The decay calculation exponentially
decreases the affinity to 1% of its starting value
over the defined lookback window in days.
To better understand how affinity is calculated, refer to this example configuration.
Configuration Setting Value
Affinity Type Real-Time
Lookback Window 30 days
Decay Enabled
81

=== PAGE 86 ===
Salesforce Personalization Calculated Affinities
Configuration Setting Value
Affinity Object Goods Product
Selected Object Fields Brand
Engagement Signal (Strength; Impact)
•
Product View (Low; Positive)
•
Add to Cart (Medium; Positive)
•
Purchase (High; Positive)
•
Return (Medium; Negative)
When you save these configuration settings, a real-time affinity calculated insight is created and added to
the profile data graph you selected when defining the calculated affinity. As engagement signals are
registered, the affinity calculation updates the score based on signal strength and impact. As an example,
this table shows an engagement pattern for a single day, and the associated score impact for each
engagement.
Signal Registered Impact Brand Score
View +1 BrandA: 1
View +1 BrandA: 2
View +1 BrandA: 3
Add to Cart +3 BrandA: 6
Purchase +5 BrandA: 11
The affinity score starts at 0, increases for positive engagement signals, and decreases for negative
engagement signals. Decay is factored in using a batch process that’s based on the calculated insight
refresh schedule.
Important When defining affinity engagement scoring for use with targeting rules, segmentation
logic, and recommendation filters, make sure to consider the rate at which engagement signal
scores can increase or decrease. Creating a rule or segment that targets people with a very high
affinity score can require a lot of engagement events before reaching the affinity level you set. For
example, defining only two, low-strength engagement signals for an affinity, but creating a rule or
segment with an affinity score minimum of 70, can result in very few people becoming eligible for
the rule or segment.
See Also
Using Calculated Affinities
Engagement Signals
Configure a Real-Time Calculated Affinity
Calculated Affinities
82

=== PAGE 87 ===
Salesforce Personalization Calculated Affinities
Configure a Real-Time Calculated Affinity
Define calculated affinity within specific boundaries. These boundaries include the selected data space,
objects, and fields that you want to calculate affinity against, and within a defined engagement
timeframe. You also specify the strength of an engagement signal, and the relative impact the signal has
when calculating the affinity.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure a real-time calculated affinity: Calculated Affinities, Data Graph Definitions,
Engagement Signals
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Calculated Affinity.
22.. Click New.
33.. Define calculated infinity properties.
aa.. Select the data space that you want to use as a calculated affinity source.
bb.. Specify a lookback window that you want to use for this affinity calculation.
The lookback window defines the engagement time period considered for calculating affinity.
cc.. Specify an affinity name and an optional description.
The API name is auto-generated.
44.. (Optional) Activate affinity decay to enable affinity scores to degrade over time.
The decay value is calculated periodically in a batch process, according to the schedule for refreshing
calculated insights. When enabled, affinity decay considers how recently and how often engagement
occurred within the set lookback window. The decay calculation uses an exponential decay model,
where the affinity value drops to 1% of its starting value over the specified lookback window in days.
55.. Click Next.
66.. Select a real-time profile data graph to define what DMOs and engagement signals are available for
use with the calculated affinity.
You can select from only profile data graphs that use the individual or unified individual DMO as the
primary object and reside in the selected data space.
77.. Select an object that you want to use to calculate an affinity score against.
You can select from only DMOs related to at least 1 engagement object in the selected profile data
graph.
88.. Select a field that you want to use to calculate an affinity score against. To select a field, move it from
the Available Fields list to the Selected Fields list.
You can select from only mapped, text-based fields. For example, if using the Goods Product DMO,
you can select from attributes like brand, style, or category for calculating affinity. Upon save, a
calculated insight is created for the field you selected.
99.. Click Next.
1100.. Select at least 1 engagement signal to start affinity calculations. You can add up to 10 engagement
signals to the calculated affinity.
You can select from only engagement signals associated with engagement DMOs on the selected
profile data graph that are related to the affinity object, and have a configured item identifier. For more
83

=== PAGE 88 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
information, see Engagement Signals.
1111.. Specify a strength for the engagement signal.
Strength indicates the level of significance to assign a signal when calculating affinity. You can choose a
strength of high, medium, or low.
1122.. Specify the desired strength and impact of the engagement signal.
Impact indicates whether the signal provides a positive or negative effect to the calculation.
1133.. Save your work.
Calculated Insights generated when you create a real-time calculated affinity are automatically added
to the selected profile data graph.
See Also
Using Calculated Affinities
Engagement Signals
Calculated Affinities
Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization
Recommenders
Salesforce Personalization in Marketing Cloud Next generates multichannel, focused, and individualized
recommendations based off of deep, digital, and offline behavioral and business context data. To create
personalized recommendations, you configure a recommender and train it using Data 360 data graphs
that you select.
Machine Learning for Objective-Based Recommenders
The Salesforce Personalization recommendation system uses machine learning and AI to analyze user
behavior along with data from profile and item data graphs. The system then predicts user actions that
support business goals, such as increasing revenue or reducing unsubscribes. When you understand
how the system works, you can provide adequate inputs that influence the learning and lead to better
recommendations.
Choosing a Recommendation Type
The recommendation type defines the method that the recommender uses to provide content. You
can choose either objective-based recommendations or rule-based recommendations. Objective-
based recommendations use a deep learning model to produce personalized, targeted
recommendations for an individual. Rule-based recommendations use business logic to
mathematically determine a list of recommendations based on Data 360 calculated insights. For both
recommendation types, you can add filters to include or exclude items.
Configure a Recommender
A recommender presents personalized recommendations to visitors based on the recommendation
type and criteria that you select.
Recommendation Filters
Use Recommendation Filters to control which items the recommender suggests to your customers.
Simulate a Recommender
84

=== PAGE 89 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
After you create a recommender and train it, you can preview recommendations for specific users and
for the items that the user is viewing at the time the recommendations are presented. By previewing
recommendation results, you can verify the simulation before publishing the recommender.
Co-Bought Recommender with Multiple Dimension Filters Configuration Example
Use calculated insights and the power of filters to configure a recommender to generate a list of
products that have frequently been purchased together.
Training a Personalization Recommender
After you create a personalization recommender, it uses Customer 360 data from the selected data
graphs to begin training. You can track the training on the recommender record.
Set Up a Fallback Recommender
Select a fallback recommender to use when your recommender doesn’t return sufficient
recommendation items. If restrictive filters or insufficient data prevent a recommender from returning
sufficient items, Salesforce Personalization uses the fallback recommender to fill the remaining slots.
Machine Learning for Objective-Based Recommenders
The Salesforce Personalization recommendation system uses machine learning and AI to analyze user
behavior along with data from profile and item data graphs. The system then predicts user actions that
support business goals, such as increasing revenue or reducing unsubscribes. When you understand how
the system works, you can provide adequate inputs that influence the learning and lead to better
recommendations.
Engagement Signals for Recommendation Training
The selection of engagement signals is crucial, because it determines which user behaviors the system
prioritizes during the learning process. For example, to optimize for maximizing add-to-cart actions,
engagement signals used for recommendation training might include Product View, Product Click, Add
to Cart, and Product Purchased. Engagement signals can be configured based on your engagement
sources, which may include Salesforce channels and non-Salesforce channels, depending on the
engagement data you feed into Data 360. For more information, see Engagement Signals.
To encourage effective training, your custom objective should, by default, include all engagement signals
found within your profile and item data graphs. You should actively exclude only the specific signals
you’ve determined are unsuitable for influencing the model's recommendations.
The Learning Feedback Loop
The custom objective-based recommendation system learns by recommending items and observing the
rewards it gets. Then, it evaluates the relationships based on whether the recommended items helped
achieve the defined business objectives.
Think of it as a continuous feedback loop.
85

=== PAGE 90 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
Recommendation:
The system makes a recommendation to a user based on past interactions and the defined
objective.
Observation
The system observes what happens after the recommendation. Did the user take an action that
contributed to the objective?
Reward
When the recommendation leads to a positive outcome that’s aligned with the objective, the
system receives a reward. The value of this reward depends on how significant the outcome is for
the business goal.
Learning
The system analyzes the rewards it receives to understand which recommendations were most
effective in achieving the business goal. It then updates its algorithms and models to prioritize
similar recommendations in the future.
How the System Thinks: From User Journeys to Recommendations
To better understand how to design your event capture and recommenders, it helps to understand how
the machine learning model works. The system uses a sophisticated method to predict user actions by
analyzing the sequence of their behavior.
A Multi-Step Journey, Not Just a Single Step
The model supports multiple steps to achieve a desired outcome. It analyzes the entire series of
signals from a natural customer journey on your website or app. For example, it can trace a path
from viewing a category page, to clicking a specific product, to viewing a related accessory, and
finally to adding an item to the cart. Both the journey's signals (such as clicks and views) and the
outcome (such as a purchase) are expressed as Engagement Signals.
Learning from Collective User Behavior
The model doesn't learn only from a single user's journey in isolation. It learns by analyzing the
paths of all users on your website. By looking at collective behavior, it identifies which items have
a high probability of being interacted with, given the sequence of actions a user has taken so far.
This allows the system to recommend items that are relevant to the user's current journey, based
on patterns learned from thousands of similar journeys.
Predicting the Next Action in the Journey
At its core, the model is designed to answer the question: "Based on everything this user has
done so far, what is the next item they are most likely to be interested in?" It calculates the
likelihood of a user interacting with a specific item (Item Y) given their unique history of
interactions (Item X1, X2, and so on).
86

=== PAGE 91 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
During the training process, the system reviews all historical user journeys. It learns which item a
user typically interacts with after a specific sequence of actions. The system then fine-tunes its
logic to get better at predicting that next-best item, making it highly effective at recommending
the right product to the right person at the right time. This method of learning from sequences is
known as autoregressive modeling.
Aligning Recommendations with Business Goals
The model doesn't just predict the most likely next interaction; it aligns those predictions with
your business objectives. Each potential item is assigned a reward value, which represents its
importance to your goal. For a "Maximize Revenue" goal, the reward is the total order value. For
other goals, it could be a different value that you define.
The system then combines these two pieces of information:
•
The likelihood that a user will interact with an item.
•
The reward value of that item for your business.
This system makes sure that the final recommendation isn’t just relevant and personalized to the
user's journey but also highly valuable for achieving your specific business goal.
Limitations
Over time, through the continuous process of recommending, observing, and learning from the rewards,
the recommendation system becomes increasingly effective at guiding users towards actions that benefit
your business objectives.
The system currently focuses on maximizing the immediate reward of each item recommendation. This
means it's learning to make the best personalized suggestions right now to drive the desired outcome.
This approach is used because user behavior can be influenced by many factors on the platform, such as
search results and promotions. Since the recommendation model might not be the only one at play, it
can be challenging to directly link a single recommendation to long-term future actions.
See Also
Engagement Signals and Metrics
Salesforce Help: Engagement Signals
Choosing a Recommendation Type
The recommendation type defines the method that the recommender uses to provide content. You can
choose either objective-based recommendations or rule-based recommendations. Objective-based
recommendations use a deep learning model to produce personalized, targeted recommendations for
an individual. Rule-based recommendations use business logic to mathematically determine a list of
recommendations based on Data 360 calculated insights. For both recommendation types, you can add
filters to include or exclude items.
87

=== PAGE 92 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
Objective-Based Recommendations Rule-Based Recommendations
Uses deep learning algorithms on activity and Relies on calculated insights from the item data
behavioral data associated with a unique graph to rank and sort recommendable content.
individual to provide personalized experiences.
Uses deep learning to predict which Generates recommendations based on
recommendations to present to an individual to mathematical calculations associated with specific
best achieve the selected business goal. profile attributes (like sales or views) or item
attributes (like price, brand, or publish date).
Eligible individuals receive their own, unique set of Eligible individuals receive recommendations
recommendations based on what the algorithm based on attributes included in the selected
determines to accomplish the selected business calculated insight.
objective.
Configure a Recommender
A recommender presents personalized recommendations to visitors based on the recommendation type
and criteria that you select.
Recommender Considerations
When configuring a recommender, keep these considerations in mind.
Configure an Objective-Based Recommender
Using a deep learning model, an objective-based recommender generates personalized, targeted
recommendations for individuals to advance a specific business-related goal. You can choose to use an
existing, predefined objective or create a new, custom objective for the recommender. Salesforce
Personalization supports three predefined objectives–Maximize Revenue, Maximize Revenue with
Promotions, and Maximize Clicks. These predefined objectives require you to map and include certain
Data 360 entities in your profile and item data graphs. If you’re using a predefined objective, make
sure you configure the data graphs correctly.
Configure a Rule-Based Recommender
Leverage business logic and Data 360 calculated insights to mathematically determine a list of
personalized recommendations, enhancing user experience and driving engagement.
See Also
Using Data Graphs With Personalization
Configure Data 360 Insights for Personalization
Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
Add Recommendation Filters
Recommender Considerations
When configuring a recommender, keep these considerations in mind.
88

=== PAGE 93 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
•
Recommenders use Data 360 data graphs to identify who is eligible to receive personalized content
and which content is available to recommend.
•
A profile data graph configured in a recommender must have a Data Model Object (DMO) of Profile
category and have a primary DMO set to Unified Individual, Individual, or Account.
•
By default, a recommender returns up to 12 recommendations at a time for each personalization
point.
•
If a recommender receives duplicate items for recommendation, one item is selected for display and
all other duplicates are dropped.
•
Before an objective-based recommender can provide recommendations, it must complete minimal
training. This training requires at least 3 engagement activities be recorded across the engagement
objects that are referenced by the recommender.
Configure an Objective-Based Recommender
Using a deep learning model, an objective-based recommender generates personalized, targeted
recommendations for individuals to advance a specific business-related goal. You can choose to use an
existing, predefined objective or create a new, custom objective for the recommender. Salesforce
Personalization supports three predefined objectives–Maximize Revenue, Maximize Revenue with
Promotions, and Maximize Clicks. These predefined objectives require you to map and include certain
Data 360 entities in your profile and item data graphs. If you’re using a predefined objective, make sure
you configure the data graphs correctly.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure recommenders: Change and Edit Recommenders
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Recommenders.
22.. Click New.
33.. In the Recommender Properties window, select a data space.
The data space that you choose determines which data graphs are available for you to select.
44.. Select a profile data graph.
The profile data graph that you choose determines which profiles are eligible to receive personalized
content and which profile-related attributes the personalization decision process can use. The menu
lists only the profile data graphs in the selected data space.
Note f you want to use this profile data graph with a custom objective, make sure that it includes
the engagement signals' DMOs and fields so that the signals are available for selection during
objective creation. For example, the primary Data Model Object (DMO) should include
parameters such as user ID, timestamp ID, and unique ID. Additionally, any DMOs and fields used
in filters must be present and checked in the profile data graph.
55.. Select an item data graph to use for personalization response training.
The item data graph returns item-specific or catalog-specific content based on the data graph root
object. The recommender uses this content when selecting what to return to the user in a
89

=== PAGE 94 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
personalized response. The menu lists only the item data graphs in the selected data space.
Note If you want to use this item data graph with a custom objective, ensure that it includes the
DMO and field used for the engagement signal's item identifier parameter. This will make the
engagement signal available for selection during objective creation.
66.. Enter a recommender name and an optional description.
The Recommender API Name is autogenerated.
77.. (Optional) Activate a fallback recommender. You can activate a fallback recommender at any time. See
Set Up a Fallback Recommender.
88.. Click Next.
99.. Select Objective-Based Recommendations, and then click Next. For predefined objectives to function
correctly, first configure the profile and item data graphs with Data 360 entities.
••
To use an existing or predefined objective, choose Existing Objective and select an objective from
the list.
objective description
This objective returns recommendations
intended to increase checkout frequency,
increase cart value at checkout, or both. Make
sure that the data graphs are configured
Maximize Revenue correctly.
•• - Configure Profile Data Graph for the
Maximize Revenue Recommender
•• - Configure Item Data Graph for the Maximize
Revenue Recommender
This objective returns promotion
recommendations to influence product
purchases through increased checkout
frequency, increased cart value at checkout, or
both.
By analyzing purchase history and order details
across your website, app, and point of sale
system, Salesforce Personalization identifies the
promotions that actually trigger purchases. It
Maximize Revenue with Promotions then suggests the promotions that are most
likely to increase total revenue based on each
customer's unique shopping habits.
To effectively use this predefined objective,
make sure that the event streams, data model,
and data graphs are configured as outlined in
the following topics.
•• - Configure Profile Data Graph for the
Maximize Revenue with Promotion
Recommender
90

=== PAGE 95 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
objective description
•• - Configure Item Data Graph for the Maximize
Revenue with Promotion Recommender
•• - Configure Event Streams and Data Models for
Maximize Revenue with Promotions
Recommenders
This objective returns articles that are organized
to maximize clicks based on current and
historical article interaction from machine
learning. Make sure that the data graphs are
Maximize Clicks configured correctly.
•• - Configure Profile Data Graph for the
Maximize Clicks Recommender
•• - Configure Item Data Graph for the Maximize
Clicks Recommender
••
To create a new objective, choose New Objective and use the instructions in Create a Custom
Objective.
1100.. (Optional) Add filters.
You can add filters to a recommender at any time. See Add Recommendation Filters.
1111.. Save the recommender.
Personalization creates the recommender. You can select the recommender for any personalization point
decision.
Create a Custom Objective
Using specific engagement signals, you can create custom business objectives to use with objective-
based recommenders. You can reuse this objective to enhance the customer journey and deliver real-
time, personalized recommendations, simplifying setup and boosting customer engagement.
See Also
Engagement Signals and Metrics
Salesforce Help: Engagement Signals
Using Data Graphs With Personalization
Configure Data 360 Insights for Personalization
Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
Add Recommendation Filters
Create a Custom Objective
Using specific engagement signals, you can create custom business objectives to use with objective-
based recommenders. You can reuse this objective to enhance the customer journey and deliver real-
time, personalized recommendations, simplifying setup and boosting customer engagement.
91

=== PAGE 96 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure recommenders: Change and Edit Recommenders
11.. Complete steps 1 through 8 in Configure an Objective-Based Recommender.
22.. To create a custom objective, select New Objective.
33.. Name the objective and add an optional description.
The API name is auto-generated.
44.. Select a recommender purpose.
purpose description
This recommender is designed to maximize a
specific business goal. When selected, it provides
Maximize recommendations aimed at enhancing positive
business outcomes, such as increasing orders or
signups.
This recommender is designed to minimize a
specific negative business outcome. When
Minimize
selected, it provides recommendations aimed at
reducing issues like cart abandonments.
55.. Select an engagement signal metric, and click Next.
Note The metrics available for selection are count-based and use an underlying engagement
signal that references an engagement object and mapped fields on the selected profile data
graph, as well as the root DMO and the field of the recommended item data graph.
66.. Select any other engagement signals that you want to use to train the machine language learning
model.
Note Only the engagement signals compatible with the selected profile and item data graphs are
available for selection. For example, when recommending products, signals like Product
Browsing, Add to Cart, or Purchases may be available as these signals can enhance model
performance and improve recommendations.
77.. Click Next.
88.. (Optional) Add filters.
You can add filters to a recommender at any time. See Add Recommendation Filters.
99.. Save the recommender.
See Also
Engagement Signals and Metrics
Salesforce Help: Engagement Signals
92

=== PAGE 97 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
Configure a Rule-Based Recommender
Leverage business logic and Data 360 calculated insights to mathematically determine a list of
personalized recommendations, enhancing user experience and driving engagement.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure recommenders: Change and Edit Recommenders
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Recommenders.
22.. Click New.
33.. In the Recommender Properties window, select a data space.
The data space that you choose determines which data graphs are available for you to select.
44.. Select a profile data graph.
The profile data graph that you choose determines which profiles are eligible to receive personalized
content, and which profile-related attributes the personalization decision process can use. The menu
lists only the profile data graphs in the selected data space.
55.. Select an item data graph to use for personalization response training.
The item data graph returns item-specific or catalog-specific content based on the data graph root
object. The recommender uses this content when selecting what to return to the user in a
personalized response. The menu lists only the item data graphs in the selected data space with
Unified Individual, Individual, or Account as their primary DMO.
66.. Enter a recommender name and an optional description.
The Recommender API Name is autogenerated.
77.. (Optional) Activate a fallback recommender. You can activate a fallback recommender at any time. See
Set Up a Fallback Recommender.
88.. Click Next.
99.. Select Rule-Based Recommendations, and then click Next.
1100.. Select the data graph resource to provide recommendations.
You can select either an item data graph or a profile data graph resource.
••
Item data graph provides direct attributes and calculated insights.
••
Profile data graph provides calculated insights and engagement attributes related to
recommendable items, such as products or brands.
Important If you select a profile data graph engagement attribute such as engagement date to
recommend recently viewed items, create a profile data graph filter. Configure the filter to
connect the item data graph product attribute with the related profile data graph's engagement
attribute. This filter makes sure that Salesforce Personalization picks only the items that your
customers recently viewed.
1111.. (Optional) Add filters.
You can add filters to a recommender at any time. See Add Recommendation Filters.
1122.. Save the recommender.
93

=== PAGE 98 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
Salesforce Personalization creates the recommender. You can select the recommender for any
personalization point decision.
See Also
Using Data Graphs With Personalization
Configure Data 360 Insights for Personalization
Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
Add Recommendation Filters
Recommendation Filters
Use Recommendation Filters to control which items the recommender suggests to your customers.
On the recommender's Filters page, you include or exclude items based on item attributes, the item the
visitor is viewing, or the visitor's profile data.
Add Recommendation Filters
Use filters to control exactly which items appear in your recommendations.
Example Filters for Promotion Eligibility Criteria
Promotions often include criteria around who is eligible to receive it. While Salesforce Personalization
does not enforce end-stage validation criteria, such as meeting a minimum spend at checkout, you
can suppress recommendations by filtering by profile criteria or user context.
Filter Recommendations Using Dynamic Context Variables
Include or exclude items based on the dynamic variables passed when a user makes a personalization
request. For example, you can configure a filter to include items that match the category value passed
in the personalization request.
Recommendation Filter Operators
Select the appropriate operator to compare catalog fields against static values, customer profile
attributes, or session context to refine recommendation logic.
Filter Items with the Is Subset Operator
Create strict eligibility rules before showing a recommendation or promotion.
Add Recommendation Filters
Use filters to control exactly which items appear in your recommendations.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure recommendation filters: Change and Edit Recommenders
11.. In the App Launcher, find and select Recommenders.
22.. Open your recommender and click Edit.
94

=== PAGE 99 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
33.. Click Next until you reach the Filters page.
44.. Select the Include or Exclude filter tab.
55.. Choose when the filter applies: All conditions are met or Any condition is met.
66.. Click Add Condition.
77.. Select an item data graph resource.
Personalization uses this to decide if an item is a good fit for a recommendation. You can pick a direct
attribute, a related attribute, or a calculated insight. When you select an option, use the subcategories
to narrow your choice.
88.. Select a filter type.
Option Description
Decision Context Matches attributes to the item a visitor is currently viewing. For
example, if you choose the Color resource, Personalization
includes or excludes items that match the color of the visitor's
current item.
Static
Filters items using specific attributes like price, category, or date.
For example, include items under $10 or exclude those
published before a certain date.
You can also filter by dynamic context variables included in your
request. To configure dynamic context variables, see Filter
Recommendations Using Dynamic Context Variables.
Profile Data Graph
Uses visitor behavior, such as purchase history, based on
calculated insights. For example, you can hide items a user
already bought or show specific items only to returning visitors.
Prerequisite: Before you choose this option, create a calculated
insight associated with your selected profile data graph.
99.. Select an operator to evaluate the filter. Available operators depend on the filter type and field data
type. For details on available operators, see Recommendation Filter Operators.
1100.. Define the filter value or resource anchor:
••
Static: Enter the specific value to filter against.
••
Decision Context: Choose an attribute to act as the context anchor (your point of reference).
••
Profile Data Graph: Filter recommendations based on visitor behavior and history. Select a direct
attribute, related attribute, or calculated insight. To narrow results, apply optional metrics for loyalty
targeting (such as specific brands) or value constraints. As a prerequisite, create a calculated insight
for your selected profile data graph before using this option.
1111.. (Optional) Add another filter condition.
1122.. Click Save.
Personalization creates the recommender, and you can use it as a personalization point decision.
95

=== PAGE 100 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
Example Filters for Promotion Eligibility Criteria
Promotions often include criteria around who is eligible to receive it. While Salesforce Personalization
does not enforce end-stage validation criteria, such as meeting a minimum spend at checkout, you can
suppress recommendations by filtering by profile criteria or user context.
Here’s a list of use cases to define eligibility criteria around promotions in the Salesforce standard data
model, and how these use cases translate as filtering criteria in a recommender.
Use Case Filter Configuration
Limit access to promotion based on Promotion
Include or Exclude Filter: Include
Market Segments inclusion where the individual
must be part of all segments
Item Data Graph Filter: Promotion > Promotion
Market Segment > Market Segment
Filter Type: {profile dg}
Operator: isSubset
Evaluation Criteria: Unified Individual >
Segments.Unified Individual - Latest
Limit access to promotion based on Promotion
Include or Exclude Filter: Include
Market Segments inclusion where the individual
can be part of any segments
Item Data Graph Filter: Promotion > Promotion
Market Segment > Market Segment
Filter Type: {profile dg}
Operator: match any
Evaluation Criteria: Unified Individual >
Segments.Unified Individual - Latest
Limit access to the loyalty program (which
Include or Exclude Filter: Include
contains promotions and offers) based on loyalty
tier attribute
Item Data Graph Filter: Promotion > Loyalty
Program > Loyalty Member Tier > Loyalty Tier
Filter Type: {profile dg}
Operator: is equal to
Evaluation Criteria: profileDG.Individual__dlm >
… > Loyalty Member Tier > Loyalty Tier
96

=== PAGE 101 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
Limit access to the Program (which contains
Include or Exclude Filter: Include
promotions and offers) based on loyalty tier group
attribute
Item Data Graph Filter: Promotion > Loyalty
Program > Loyalty Member Tier > Loyalty Tier >
Loyalty Tier Group
Filter Type: {profile dg}
Operator: is equal to
Evaluation Criteria: profileDG.Individual__dlm >
… > Loyalty Member Tier > Loyalty Tier > Loyalty
Group Tier
Show promotions and child offers that are
Include or Exclude Filter: Include
relevant to the product page that the individual is
currently viewing
Item Data Graph Filter: Promotion > Promotion
Product
Filter Type: {decision context}
Operator: match any
Evaluation Criteria: Promotion > Promotion
Product > Products.ID
Show promotions and child offers that are
Include or Exclude Filter: Include
relevant to the product category page that the
user is currently viewing
Item Data Graph Filter: Promotion > Promotion
Product Category
Filter Type: {decision context}
Operator: match any
Evaluation Criteria: Promotion > Promotion
Product Category > Products.Category ID
Show promotions and child offers for product that
Include or Exclude Filter: Include
an individual has not purchased
Item Data Graph Filter: Promotion > Promotion
Product, orOffer > Offer Product
Filter Type: {profile dg}
Operator: Is Not Equal To
97

=== PAGE 102 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
Evaluation Criteria: Unified Individual > Linked
Individual > Individual > Sales Order Products >
Item ID
Show eligible promotions based on the
Include or Exclude Filter: Include
individual’s birth date
Item Data Graph Filter: Promotion > Promotion
Channel
Filter Type: {decision context}
Operator: match any
Evaluation Criteria: {!PromotionChannel}
Show partner promotions - partner product is
Include or Exclude Filter: Include
linked to the promotion through Promotion
Loyalty Partner Product object (could be product
Item Data Graph Filter: Promotion > Promotion
or product category)
Product
Filter Type: {decision context}
Operator: match any
Evaluation Criteria: Promotion > Loyalty Program
> Loyalty Program Partner > Loyalty Partner
Product
See Also
Recommendation Filter Operators
Filter Recommendations Using Dynamic Context Variables
Include or exclude items based on the dynamic variables passed when a user makes a personalization
request. For example, you can configure a filter to include items that match the category value passed in
the personalization request.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure recommendation filters: Change and Edit Recommenders
When configuring a filter, keep these considerations in mind.
•
Specify the dynamic context variable in the Salesforce Merge Language (SML) format. The syntax
98

=== PAGE 103 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
consists of an open curly brace and an exclamation mark, followed by the variable name, and a closing
curly brace. For example, if you want to filter the items based on the value passed for the category
field, then enter {!category}.
•
When a user makes a personalization request, the recommender replaces the SML variable in the filter
with the corresponding context attribute value on the personalization request. If there’s no value for
the variable in the personalization request, the recommender discards the filter. For information about
passing context variables in personalization requests, see Request Personalization.
•
The variable can have up to 64 characters, including alphanumeric characters and underscores, but
can’t have a prefix or suffix. For example, you can’t use {!myCategory}-category.
•
A static filter can have only one dynamic context variable. To add multiple variables, create a static
filter for each variable.
11.. On the Recommenders page, open the recommender that you want to add filters to, and click Edit.
22.. Click Next to progress through the Recommender Properties pages until you reach the Filters page.
33.. On the Filters page, click Add Condition.
44.. Select an item data graph resource.
55.. For the filter type, select Static.
66.. For the operator, select Matches.
77.. Enter the dynamic context variable in SML format, for example, {!category}.
88.. Click Save.
See Also
Set Up Dynamic Context Variables
Request Personalization
Recommendation Filter Operators
Select the appropriate operator to compare catalog fields against static values, customer profile
attributes, or session context to refine recommendation logic.
99

=== PAGE 104 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
Static Filter Operators
A static operator compares a catalog field against a fixed value that you enter manually. The evaluation
uses your Salesforce org’s time zone setting.
Operator Description Data Type Usage Tips
Has Value Matches fields that Text, Number, Date Use to require that a
contain any data. recommended item has
critical data, like a
description or image
URL.
Has No Value Identifies fields that are Text, Number, Date Use to exclude items
null or missing. with incomplete catalog
data from being shown
to visitors.
Is Equal To Matches the catalog Text, Number Best for filtering by
value exactly to the specific attributes, such
provided resource as an In Stock status or
value. a specific brand.
Is Not Equal To Excludes items that Text, Number Use to filter out product
match the provided types, such as excluding
resource value. clearance items from a
full-price gallery.
Is Less Than Matches values that are Number Ideal for budget friendly
lower than the specified sections where items
number. must be under a
specific price point.
Is Less Than Or Equal To Matches values that are Number Use to set inclusive
lower than or equal to upper limits for numeric
the specified number. attributes, such as
maximum weight or
price.
Is Greater Than Matches values that are Number Useful for identifying
higher than the high-performance items
specified number. with a rating above a
certain score.
Is Greater Than Or Matches values that are Number Use for minimum
Equal To higher than or equal to requirements, such as
the specified number. items with a 4-star and
up customer rating.
100

=== PAGE 105 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
Operator Description Data Type Usage Tips
Is Between Matches values or dates Number, Date, Ideal for seasonal or
within an inclusive DateTime holiday promotions.
range.
Is Today Matches the catalog Date, DateTime Use for Deal of the Day.
date to the current
calendar date.
Last Number of Days Filters for items with a Date, DateTime Use for recently added
date within a set New Arrivals sections.
number of days in the
past.
Next Number of Days Filters for items with a Date, DateTime Use to promote
date within a set upcoming Events or
number of days in the pre-orders.
future.
Is Before Current Matches items with a Date, DateTime
•
Include Filter: Use
DateTime catalog date that occurs
with StartDate to
before the present
show active items.
moment.
•
Exclude Filter: Use
with EndDate to hide
expired items.
Is After Current Matches items with a Date, DateTime
•
Include Filter: Use
DateTime catalog date that occurs
with EndDate to show
after the present
non-expired items.
moment.
•
Exclude Filter: Use
with StartDate to hide
future launches.
Decision Context and Profile Data Graph Filter Operators
These operators compare catalog fields against dynamic values, such as customer profile attributes,
calculated insights, or the item a visitor is viewing.
You can’t use date operators because you can’t compare catalog date fields against dynamic values.
Operator Description Data Type Requirement
Is Subset Matches if every value Text Both left- and right-
101

=== PAGE 106 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
Operator Description Data Type Requirement
in the catalog attribute hand sides of the filter’s
is contained within the resource must have 1:N
resource. relationships. See Filter
Items with the Is Subset
Operator.
Match Any Includes items if any Text The right-hand resource
catalog value is found must be mapped as a
within the resource. 1:N relationship.
Does Not Match Excludes items if any Text The right-hand resource
catalog value is listed must be mapped as a
within the resource. 1:N relationship.
Is Equal To Matches the catalog Text, Number Requires a value.
value exactly to the Doesn’t evaluate nulls.
provided resource
value.
Is Not Equal To Excludes items that Text, Number
match the provided
resource value.
Is Less Than Matches items with a Number
numeric value lower
than the resource.
Is Less Than Or Equal To Matches items with a Number
numeric value lower
than or equal to the
resource.
Is Greater Than Matches items with a Number
numeric value higher
than the resource.
Is Greater Than Or Match items with a Number
Equal To numeric value higher
than or equal to the
resource.
Filter Use Cases
Review these common business scenarios to create personalized recommendation logic.
102

=== PAGE 107 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
Static Filter Use Cases
Show Only In-Stock Items
Prevent orders for unavailable products by showing only items that are in stock.
•
Condition tab: Include
•
Item Data Graph Resource: Availability
•
Filter type: Static
•
Operator: Is Equal To
•
Value: In Stock
Hide Expired Items
Show shoppers only active promotions by removing products that have passed the expiration date.
•
Condition tab: Exclude
•
Item Attribute: Expiration Date
•
Filter type: Static
•
Operator: Is Before Current DateTime
•
Value: [leave blank for system time]
Dynamic Filter Use Cases
Recommend Items by Color
Create a visually consistent experience, such as a More in this Color gallery, by recommending products
that are the same color as the item the visitor is viewing.
•
Condition tab: Include
•
Item Data Graph Resource: Color
•
Filter type: Decision Context
•
Operator: Match Any
•
Decision Context Resource: Color
Boost Cross-Category Discovery
Encourage customers to explore new product lines by recommending items from categories that they
haven’t interacted with.
•
Condition tab: Include
•
Item Data Graph Resource: Category
•
Filter type: Profile Data Graph
•
Operator: Does Not Match
•
Profile Data Graph Resource: Profile > Recent_Interaction_Categories
Exclude Previously Purchased Items
103

=== PAGE 108 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
Increase recommendation variety by excluding products that the customer has already bought.
Note Before configuring this filter, create a calculated insight in Data 360 that aggregates product
IDs from past sales order data.
•
Condition tab: Exclude
•
Item Data Graph Resource: Product ID
•
Filter type: Profile Data Graph
•
Operator: Is Equal To
•
Profile Data Graph Resource: Profile > Recent_Purchases_IDs
See Also
Add Recommendation Filters
Filter Items with the Is Subset Operator
Create strict eligibility rules before showing a recommendation or promotion.
The Is Subset operator confirms that all the attributes defined on a catalog item are contained within the
resource. Use this operator when a recommendation must satisfy all the criteria to be valid.
Technical Requirements
To use this operator, your data must meet these criteria.
•
Filter types: Use this operator only with the Profile Data Graph filter (to match against visitor behavior)
or Decision Context filter (to match against the item being viewed).
•
Objects: The object must support multiple values per record.
•
One-to-many (1:N) relationships: The attributes included in the filter must have a one-to-many
relationship with their primary record, such as a specific Product or Individual.
•
Direct attributes: You can’t use this operator with a direct attribute because it has a one-to-one (1:1)
relationship with the primary record.
•
System limits: The resource and the catalog field can’t have more than 100 attributes per dataset.
Examples
Entitlement Check (Profile Data Graph)
Goal: Before showing a promotion, confirm that a customer belongs to all the required segments.
•
Catalog Item (Promotion): The attributes defined on the item are the Loyal Customer AND High
Spender segments.
•
User A (Match): User A’s profile contains Loyal Customer, High Spender, and Newsletter Subscriber.
Because the item’s attributes are completely contained within the user’s values, the promotion is
recommended.
104

=== PAGE 109 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
•
User B (No Match): User B’s profile contains only Loyal Customer. Because High Spender isn’t
contained in the user’s values, the promotion isn’t shown.
Streaming Compatibility (Decision Context)
Goal: Recommend premium movies only if the visitor’s device and account plan meet every technical
and subscription requirement.
•
Catalog Item (Movie): A Premium 4K Title requires the user’s device and plan to have a Premium Plan
AND 4K Hardware.
•
Context Item A (Match): The user has a Premium Plan and is watching on a 4K Smart TV. The movie is
recommended because the context satisfies all its requirements.
•
Context Item B (No Match): The user has a Premium Plan and is using a 1080p mobile phone. The
movie isn’t recommended because the context doesn’t contain the required 4K attribute.
Tips
•
Empty fields: If a catalog field is empty, it’s considered a match for all users because an empty set is
always a subset.
•
Alternative logic: To recommend items when a visitor matches at least one requirement instead of all,
use the Match Any operator.
See Also
Add Recommendation Filters
Simulate a Recommender
After you create a recommender and train it, you can preview recommendations for specific users and
for the items that the user is viewing at the time the recommendations are presented. By previewing
recommendation results, you can verify the simulation before publishing the recommender.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure recommenders: Change and Edit Recommenders
11.. On the Recommenders page, select the recommender you want to simulate.
22.. Click Simulate in the top-right corner.
33.. In the Sample Recipient field, specify the ID of the individual that you want to simulate
recommendations for.
Depending on which is used for the root DMO of the profile data graph, the ID is either the user's
Individual ID or Unified Individual ID. Use Data Explorer to look up a user’s individual ID or the Unified
Individual ID.
44.. (Optional) Enter an Anchor Item ID.
This is the ID of a specific item (for example, a product ID) used as a base item when generating
105

=== PAGE 110 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
recommendations. For example, if you enter the ID of a "Large Blue T-shirt" as the anchor item, and
there’s a filter in place to recommend similar items by color and category, then the simulator displays
other blue clothing items in the results. By changing the anchor item, you can test how different
starting points affect the recommendations.
55.. Click Simulate.
66.. Review the Results section to view the simulated recommendations.
See Also
Using Data Graphs With Personalization
Configure Data 360 Insights for Personalization
Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
Add Recommendation Filters
Co-Bought Recommender with Multiple Dimension Filters
Configuration Example
Use calculated insights and the power of filters to configure a recommender to generate a list of
products that have frequently been purchased together.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure recommendation filters: Change and Edit Recommenders
Before configuring this example, make sure to perform these tasks:
•
Create a calculated insight with two product dimensions (for example, p1 and p2 representing two
product dimensions) and a metric (for example, count), which is a collection of the number of times
the two products have been purchased together. To create calculated insights, see Calculated Insights.
When creating the insight, you can use the expression found in Co-Bought Standard Insight for
Products.
•
Configure a profile data graph based on Unified Individual ID as the primary DMO, and which relates
to other DMOs mapped to product and sales engagement. To create data graphs, see Create a Data
Graph.
•
Configure an item data graph based on Goods Product as the primary DMO, and contains the created
co-bought standard calculated insight. To create data graphs, see Create a Data Graph.
•
Create a rule-based recommender using the steps in Configure a Recommender, ensuring that you
select the co-bought standard calculated insight, and that you select count as the Sort Measure.
To add multiple dimension filters to an existing recommender:
11.. From the Recommenders page, open the recommender that you want to add filters to.
22.. Click Edit.
106

=== PAGE 111 ===
Salesforce Personalization Creating and Training Salesforce Personalization Recommenders
33.. Click Next to progress through the Recommender Properties pages until you reach the Filters page.
44.. Click Add Condition.
55.. Select Calculated Insights from Item Data Graph Resource, select the created calculated insight, and
then the product attribute that you want to compare on the web page.
66.. Select Decision Context as the filter type.
77.. Select Matches as the operator.
88.. Select Direct Attributes as the Decision Context Resource, and then select the product whose
attribute you want to compare with the Data Graph Resource selection.
99.. Click Save.
Personalization creates the recommender, and you can use it as a personalization point decision.
See Also
Co-Bought Standard Insight for Products
Training a Personalization Recommender
After you create a personalization recommender, it uses Customer 360 data from the selected data
graphs to begin training. You can track the training on the recommender record.
When tracking the recommender status, keep these considerations in mind.
•
A recommender must have an Active status for training to occur.
•
Training refreshes every 24 hours for all rule-based recommenders, and for all active, objective-based
recommenders.
•
A recommender is trained using the Data 360 data graphs that you select. The selected data space
determines which data graphs you can choose when creating a recommender.
•
Latest Refresh Status indicates the training status for the recommender.
Latest Refresh Status Definition
Processing Indicates that a recommender is undergoing
training.
Complete Indicates that the recommender has completed
a training cycle.
Failure Indicates that Salesforce Personalization
encountered a problem while training the
recommender. The training will take place again
within 24 hours. If this status persists for more
than two training cycles, contact Salesforce
Customer Support.
Personalization continues to use the last
successful training refresh until it’s replaced by a
107

=== PAGE 112 ===
Salesforce Personalization Content Schemas
Latest Refresh Status Definition
new successful training refresh.
•
Last Successful Refresh shows the date and time that the recommender completed training or a
training refresh. You can use the recommender when configuring personalization points after at least
one refresh is successful.
Set Up a Fallback Recommender
Select a fallback recommender to use when your recommender doesn’t return sufficient
recommendation items. If restrictive filters or insufficient data prevent a recommender from returning
sufficient items, Salesforce Personalization uses the fallback recommender to fill the remaining slots.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure recommenders: Change and Edit Recommenders
Fallback recommenders can’t guarantee a full set of recommendations in the following scenarios:
•
The fallback recommender has restrictive filters.
•
The fallback recommender doesn't have sufficient information.
•
The underlying system is not reachable.
11.. On the Recommenders page, open the recommender that you want to add a fallback recommender
to, and click Edit.
22.. Turn on fallback recommender.
33.. Select a fallback recommender.
The menu lists only the recommenders that share the same data space, item data graph, and profile
data graph as the primary recommender. Additionally, the recommenders must complete at least one
successful training session.
Content Schemas
Salesforce content schemas define the structure and configuration of data returned by a personalization
decision. They act as a bridge between the underlying data structure and a business user's configuration
experience, ensuring that personalized content—such as AI-driven recommendations or dynamic
content—is delivered in a consistent, uniform format across various channels.
Using Content Schemas
Personalization content schemas (previously called response templates) are required when configuring
personalization points, personalization campaigns, and personalization decisions. A content schema
108

=== PAGE 113 ===
Salesforce Personalization Content Schemas
defines the configuration options available to marketers when they’re building a personalization
decision. The content schema also ensures that all decision responses for a given personalization point
or campaign return data in the same format.
Configure a Personalization Content Schema
To ensure that the requesting application consistently renders your personalization output the same
way, you use a personalization content schema (formerly called a response template) to define the
shape of the personalization data.
Using Content Schemas
Personalization content schemas (previously called response templates) are required when configuring
personalization points, personalization campaigns, and personalization decisions. A content schema
defines the configuration options available to marketers when they’re building a personalization
decision. The content schema also ensures that all decision responses for a given personalization point
or campaign return data in the same format.
The primary functions of a content schema include:
•
Configuration Definition: The content schema specifies the personalization attributes and
configuration options available when creating personalization decisions or experiment cohorts.
•
Data Shape: A schema defines the "shape" or format of the data returned in a decision response, such
as which specific item attributes (IDs, URLs, prices, sizes, colors, and so on) to include. The schema
ensures a consistent user experience within a specific channel and across different channels.
•
Channel Reuse: Unlike models requiring channel-specific assignments, content schemas are channel-
independent, enabling use of the same personalization point logic across web, mobile, or server-side
applications.
When using content schemas keep these considerations in mind:
•
Content schemas are defined using a personalization type. The personalization type defines the
personalization category the schema can support.
•
There are two personalization types—Recommendations or Dynamic Content (formerly called Manual
Content)
- Recommendations: Dynamic and highly personalized, recommendations often leverage machine
learning to deliver individualized 1:1 experiences using a defined recommender that's built against
both a profile and item data graph. Recommenders rely on Data 360 data graphs to determine who
is eligible to receive personalized content and what content is available to recommend.
- Dynamic Content: Using a rules-based form of personalization, dynamic content uses specifically
configured content, such as CTA text or image URLs, directly into configuration fields defined by the
associated content schema. This content is stored on the personalization decision itself rather than
in Data 360, and it is typically used for elements like banners, infobars, or pop-ups.
•
Personalization points support the use of content schemas configured with either recommendations
or dynamic content personalization types. However, personalization campaigns currently support
using content schemas configured with the dynamic content personalization type only.
See Also
109

=== PAGE 114 ===
Salesforce Personalization Content Schemas
Content Schemas
Configure a Personalization Content Schema
Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
Configure a Personalization Point
Personalization Campaigns
Create a Personalization Campaign
Configure a Personalization Content Schema
To ensure that the requesting application consistently renders your personalization output the same way,
you use a personalization content schema (formerly called a response template) to define the shape of
the personalization data.
Personalization content schemas are required when configuring personalization points and
personalization decisions. A content schema defines the configuration options available to marketers
when they’re building a personalization decision. The content schema also ensures that all decision
responses for a given personalization point return data in the same format.
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Personalization Content Schema.
22.. Click New.
33.. Select the data space that you want the personalization content schema to use.
44.. Select a personalization type for the content schema.
Personalization Type Description
Recommendations Content schemas with a recommendations personalization type are
available for use on personalization points configured using a
recommendations personalization type.
Dynamic Content Content schemas with a dynamic content personalization type are
available for use on personalization points configured using a
dynamic content personalization type.
55.. Enter a name for the personalization content schema and an optional description.
The API name is auto-generated.
66.. Click Next.
77.. Add any personalization attributes.
Each personalization attribute specifies a text entry field that appears when configuring associated
personalization decisions. Using the text entry field, a marketer or business user can provide additional
information that they want to return to whomever qualifies for the decision. For example, you can add
an attribute for providing header text to a set of recommendations, call to action text, and a URL when
providing dynamic content.
88.. When configuring a content schema for dynamic content, click Save.
99.. When configuring a content schema for recommendations, click Next and define the information that
you want to return in a decision response.
aa.. Select the data model object (DMO) to use as a data source.
110

=== PAGE 115 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
An item data graph is required to configure a recommender. When configuring a content schema
for recommendations personalization types, only DMOs that are used as the root object of an item
data graph are provided for selection. After you select a DMO, you can define what information
about that DMO you want to return in a decision response.
By default, the primary key of the DMO is selected. Using only the primary key provides the option
of rendering recommendation results using a third-party system. For example, when configuring a
product recommendations strategy, you can use the primary key to return only item product IDs in a
response for rendering by the receiving system.
bb.. (Optional) Select DMO fields that you want the recommender to use when providing
recommendations.
You select fields by moving them from the Available DMO Fields list to the Selected DMO Fields list.
All available DMO fields appear as selection options. You can use the up and down arrows to the
right of the selected fields list to change the order in which fields are returned in the decision
response.
cc.. Save your work.
See Also
Content Schemas
Using Content Schemas
Configure a Personalization Point
Create a Personalization Campaign
Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
Use Salesforce Personalization in Marketing Cloud Next to create a personalization point. This object
delivers personalized content by tying together a data space, profile data graph, personalization type,
and response template. After you define these entities, you can add decisions and targeting rules to the
personalization point.
Personalization Point Considerations
When configuring a personalization point, keep these considerations in mind.
Profile Data Graphs in Personalization Points
Whether you select a standard or real-time profile data graph for your personalization point impacts
how Salesforce Personalization processes personalization requests.
Configure a Personalization Content Schema
Personalization content schemas are required when configuring personalization points and
personalization decisions. A personalization content schema defines the configuration options
available to marketers when they’re building a personalization decision. The content schema also
ensures that all decision responses for a given personalization point return data in the same format.
Configure a Personalization Point
When you configure a personalization point, you define the data space that the personalization point
uses for data and the profile data graph to use for making decisions. You also select a personalization
111

=== PAGE 116 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
type to define the kind of personalization to provide and a schema to ensure that decision responses
appear in a consistent format.
Add a Decision to a Personalization Point
A decision consists of targeting rules. The personalization point uses the decision to determine
whether the individual who is engaging with your website or app is eligible to receive personalization
content.
Create a Targeting Rule
A targeting rule determines who's eligible for a personalization decision and which personalized
content to return.
Modify a Decision
You can change decision properties or priority for a personalization point.
Add a Merge Field
To include profile data in personalization decision text, use merge fields.
Personalization Point Considerations
When configuring a personalization point, keep these considerations in mind.
•
A personalization point requires access to certain data before you configure it. This data resides in Data
360 or is generated using Data 360 functions, such as a data graph or calculated insight. Before
configuring a personalization point, set up Data 360 for use with Salesforce Personalization.
•
A personalization point is linked to a single data space, but a data space can have multiple
personalization points linked to it.
•
You associate a personalization point with a profile data graph that resides in the data space that you
select.
•
The profile data graph you associate with a personalization point impacts the configuration of
experiment cohorts and decisions in these ways:
- Availability of Recommenders: For personalization points that provide recommendations, you can
select only recommenders that were built using the same profile data graph as the personalization
point. This restriction ensures that necessary profile data is available for the recommender to
reference at run time.
- Availability of Data Points for Targeting: The data points available on the profile data graph are
eligible for use in decision or experiment targeting logic. The profile data graph data types available
for use in targeting rules include direct attributes, related attributes, calculated insights, and
segment memberships.
•
For increased security, you can designate a personalization point as requiring authentication. When
authentication is required for the personalization point, evaluations can occur only when using
Salesforce Personalization's authenticated decisioning API end point.
•
When defining a personalization point or personalization decision, you assign a personalization
content schema. The personalization content schema defines the format of the personalized content,
schema selection options are dependent on the personalization type that you select.
•
You can create multiple decisions for each personalization point.
•
The order in which you create each decision determines its initial priority, but you can modify a
decision’s priority at any time.
112

=== PAGE 117 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
See Also
Configure a Personalization Point
Add a Decision to a Personalization Point
Configure a Personalization Content Schema
Profile Data Graphs in Personalization Points
Whether you select a standard or real-time profile data graph for your personalization point impacts how
Salesforce Personalization processes personalization requests.
Real-Time Profile Data Graphs in Personalization Points
Use real-time profile data graphs for latency sensitive channels, like web and mobile. Using a real-time
profile data graph with a personalization point ensures that Salesforce Personalization has the most
up-to-date understanding of individuals, including any in-session behavior, when evaluating decision
or experiment eligibility and when making personalized decisions.
Standard Profile Data Graphs in Personalization Points
Real-time data graphs work across all personalization scenarios, however some use cases don’t
necessarily require a real-time understanding of an individual. Use a standard profile data graph in
such scenarios.
Real-Time Profile Data Graphs in Personalization Points
Use real-time profile data graphs for latency sensitive channels, like web and mobile. Using a real-time
profile data graph with a personalization point ensures that Salesforce Personalization has the most up-
to-date understanding of individuals, including any in-session behavior, when evaluating decision or
experiment eligibility and when making personalized decisions.
Important Personalization points available for selection in the Web Personalization Manager (WPM)
are restricted to only display personalization points that are built against a real-time profile data
graph.
When Salesforce Personalization receives a request for a personalization point configured using a real-
time profile data graph, it performs these steps.
Salesforce Personalization Pipeline for Real Time Profile Data Graph
113

=== PAGE 118 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
11.. The requesting application makes a request (containing personalization point IDs and an individual
ID) to Salesforce Personalization’s decisioning API.
22.. Salesforce Personalization calls the Data 360 profile API to retrieve the real-time profile.
33.. Based on profile data, Salesforce Personalization determines if an individual qualifies for an
experiment or decision based on the targeting rules configured.
44.. If qualified, Salesforce Personalization executes the decision:
••
Dynamic Content: Returns the text configured for personalization attributes to the page.
••
Recommendations: Calls the recommendation service with the profile data graph and
recommender ID to generate a set of recommendations.
55.. Personalization returns the decision to the requesting application for rendering.
66.. Logs the decision in Data 360.
See Also
Decisioning API
Standard Profile Data Graphs in Personalization Points
Real-time data graphs work across all personalization scenarios, however some use cases don’t
necessarily require a real-time understanding of an individual. Use a standard profile data graph in such
scenarios.
These are some scenarios where you can use a standards profile data graph:
•
Outbound Messaging: For many messaging scenarios, recipients aren’t necessarily active when a
message is sent. Therefore, unlike the mobile or web scenarios, there is no session level context or
114

=== PAGE 119 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
interaction data that can improve personalization decisions. In this case, a standard data graph
provides all necessary context to make a relevant personalization decision.
•
Batch Personalization: Batch personalization decisions don’t need real-time data as they aren’t shown
to an end customer in real-time. They are often included as part of an outbound message.
Important Personalization points available for selection in the Web Personalization Manager (WPM)
are restricted to only display personalization points that are built against a real-time profile data
graph.
When a personalization request contains a personalization point that uses a standard data graph, the
calling and evaluation pattern differs from requests made using real-time profile data graphs. The
difference primarily includes omitting profile lookup. By omitting this step, Salesforce Personalization
maintains decisioning times in milliseconds, as standard data graphs are not optimized for real-time
retrieval.
To avoid improper decision evaluation and ensure necessary access to data for decision evaluation,
include the individual’s profile data graph JSON in the context object of the request. Unless an
individuals profile data graph is passed as part of the personalization request, Salesforce Personalization
uses a blank, anonymous profile for evaluating a decision configured against a standard data graph. As a
result, the targeting rules evaluate to false when written against profile data or against recommender
filter logic that references profile data.
When Salesforce Personalization receives a request for a personalization point configured using a
standard profile data graph, it performs these steps.
Salesforce Personalization Pipeline for Standard Profile Data Graph
115

=== PAGE 120 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
11.. Makes a request, including the individual’s full profile data graph JSON and personalization point, to
Salesforce Personalization’s decision API.
22.. Omits the call to Data 360 profile API as the personalization point uses a standard data graph.
33.. Evaluates decisions using the profile data graph JSON included in the context object of the request.
44.. Runs the selected decision or cohort.
55.. Returns a decision to the requesting application for rendering.
66.. Logs the decision in the personalization log in Data 360.
Note For batch personalization and messages sent using Marketing Cloud Growth or Marketing
Cloud Advanced, a calling pattern where the profile data graph is included as part of the
personalization request is automatically in place.
Configure a Personalization Content Schema
Personalization content schemas are required when configuring personalization points and
personalization decisions. A personalization content schema defines the configuration options available
to marketers when they’re building a personalization decision. The content schema also ensures that all
decision responses for a given personalization point return data in the same format.
Using the personalization content schema (previously called a response template) to define the shape of
the personalization data, the requesting application can consistently render the personalization output
for display.
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Personalization Content Schema.
22.. Click New.
33.. Choose how you want to get started.
••
To create the personalization content schema from scratch, select Manual Setup and click Next.
••
To import a personalization content schema from an installed data kit, select Use a Data Kit and
click Next.
44.. For the Manual Setup configuration method:
aa.. Select the data space that you want the personalization content schema to use.
bb.. Select a personalization type for the content schema.
Personalization Type Description
Recommendations Content schemas with a recommendations personalization type
are available for use on personalization points configured using a
recommendations personalization type.
Dynamic Content Content schemas with a dynamic content personalization type are
available for use on personalization points configured using a
dynamic content personalization type.
cc.. Enter a name for the personalization content schema and an optional description.
The API name is auto-generated.
dd.. Click Next.
116

=== PAGE 121 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
55.. For the Use a Data Kit configuration method:
aa.. Select a data space.
bb.. Search for or select a data kit to view its contents.
cc.. Select the personalization content schema to import.
dd.. Click Next.
ee.. (Optional) Change the name and description.
ff.. Click Next.
Note Only unmanaged data kits are available for this configuration method. If no unmanaged
data kits contain the object, create it manually.
66.. Add any personalization attributes.
Each personalization attribute specifies a text entry field that appears when configuring associated
personalization decisions. Using the text entry field, a marketer or business user can provide additional
information that they want to return to whomever qualifies for the decision. For example, you can add
an attribute for providing header text to a set of recommendations, call to action text, and a URL when
providing dynamic content.
77.. When configuring a content schema for dynamic content, click Save.
88.. When configuring a content schema for recommendations, click Next and define the information that
you want to return in a decision response.
aa.. Select the data model object (DMO) to use as a data source.
An item data graph is required to configure a recommender. When configuring a recommendations
content schema, only DMOs that are used as the root object of an item data graph are provided for
selection. After you select a DMO, you can define what information about that DMO you want to
return in a decision response.
By default, the primary key of the DMO is selected. Using only the primary key provides the option
of rendering recommendation results using a third-party system. For example, when configuring a
product recommendations strategy, you can use the primary key to return only item product IDs in a
response for rendering by the receiving system.
bb.. (Optional) Select DMO fields that you want the recommender to use when providing
recommendations.
You select fields by moving them from the Available DMO Fields list to the Selected DMO Fields list.
All available DMO fields appear as selection options. You can use the up and down arrows to the
right of the selected fields list to change the order in which fields are returned in the decision
response.
cc.. Save your work.
See Also
Configure a Personalization Point
Personalization Point Considerations
Configure a Personalization Point
When you configure a personalization point, you define the data space that the personalization point
uses for data and the profile data graph to use for making decisions. You also select a personalization
117

=== PAGE 122 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
type to define the kind of personalization to provide and a schema to ensure that decision responses
appear in a consistent format.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure personalization points: Change and Edit Personalization Points
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Personalization Points.
22.. Click New.
33.. Choose how you want to get started.
••
To create the personalization point from scratch, select Manual Setup and click Next.
••
To import a personalization point from an installed data kit, select Use a Data Kit and click Next.
44.. For the Manual Setup configuration method:
aa.. Select the data space that you want the personalization point to use.
bb.. Select the profile data graph for determining which profiles are eligible to receive personalized
content.
The menu shows only the profile data graphs contained in the selected data space.
The profile data graph you choose impacts how you configure experiment cohorts and decisions.
For more information about the impact of profile data graphs on Personalization Points, see Profile
Data Graphs in Personalization Points.
cc.. Enter a name for the personalization point and an optional description.
The API name is auto-generated.
dd.. Select the type of personalization that you want the personalization point to provide. Making a
selection activates the Personalization Content Schema menu. Selecting the Recommendations
option shows and enables the Maximum Number of Recommendations to Return property.
ee.. (Optional) Change the maximum number of recommendations to return.
ff.. Select a personalization content schema.
The menu shows only the schemas that use a format consistent with the selected personalization
type.
gg.. (Optional) For added security when using Data 360 authenticated server-to-server real-time data
capture, select the Authentication Required checkbox.
Enabling this setting requires that the personalization point use only authenticated endpoints when
sending real-time events to and requesting authenticated recommendations from Data 360.
55.. For the Use a Data Kit configuration method:
aa.. Select a data space.
bb.. Search for or select a data kit to view its contents.
cc.. Select the personalization point to import.
dd.. Click Next.
ee.. (Optional) Change the personalization point name and description.
ff.. (Optional) Change the maximum number of recommendations to return if this is a personalization
type for recommending content.
118

=== PAGE 123 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
Note Only unmanaged data kits are available for this configuration method. If no unmanaged
data kits contain the object, create it manually.
66.. To save the personalization point without adding personalization decisions, click Save.
You can add decisions at any time.
77.. To add personalization decisions, click Save & Add Personalization Decisions.
See Add a Decision to a Personalization Point for details.
See Also
Personalization Point Considerations
Configure a Personalization Content Schema
Add a Decision to a Personalization Point
Create a Targeting Rule
Add a Decision to a Personalization Point
A decision consists of targeting rules. The personalization point uses the decision to determine whether
the individual who is engaging with your website or app is eligible to receive personalization content.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To add personalization decisions to
Create and Edit Personalization Points
personalization points:
Create and Edit Personalization Decisions
You can add multiple decisions to a personalization point. The order in which you create each decision
initially determines its priority. The first decision created has the highest priority, followed by the next
decision created, and so on. However, you can modify a decision’s priority at any time.
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Personalization Points.
22.. Open the personalization point where you want to add a decision.
33.. On the Personalization Decisions tile, click New.
44.. Name the decision and add an optional description.
The decision API name is auto-generated.
55.. Select the state of the decision.
Live decisions are evaluated; draft decisions aren’t.
66.. Click Next.
77.. Enter display text for any of the personalization attributes that you added to the related
personalization content schema.
To include profile data in the text, add merge fields. For example, you can include your user's first
name within an infobar text to greet them personally.
119

=== PAGE 124 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
88.. Click Next.
99.. Select when you want the personalized content to appear for visitors. By default, no targeting rules are
applied to a decision.
Option Description
Always (No Rules) No targeting rules are applied, and all visitors are
eligible to receive the personalized content.
All Rules Are Met If all rules are met for a visitor, they’re eligible to
receive the personalized content.
Any Rule Is Met If any one of the rules is met for a visitor, they’re
eligible to receive the personalized content.
You can create or modify targeting rules for the decision at any time.
1100.. If you accept the Always (No Rules) option, save your work.
1111.. If you select the All Rules Are Met or Any Rule Is Met option, follow the instructions in Create a
Targeting Rule.
See Also
Configure a Personalization Point
Create a Targeting Rule
Modify a Decision
Add a Merge Field
Create a Targeting Rule
A targeting rule determines who's eligible for a personalization decision and which personalized content
to return.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a targeting rule:
Create and Edit Personalization Points or
Campaigns
Create and Edit Personalization Decisions
When creating a targeting rule, keep these considerations in mind.
•
You can use direct attributes, related attributes, segments, calculated insights, Einstein Studio models,
or various contextual resource options when creating a targeting rule.
•
Before you can use segments, calculated insights, or Einstein Studio model predictions in a targeting
rule, first create them and apply or map them to the data graph that you’re using. A rule has access to
120

=== PAGE 125 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
all attributes, segments, calculated insights, and models that are accessible from the data graph.
•
To define more complex rules, you can add up to 50 targeting conditions to a personalization decision.
To create a targeting rule for a personalization decision:
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Personalization Points.
22.. Open the personalization point that you want to create a target rule for.
33.. Click the Related tab.
44.. On the Related Tab, for the decision that you want to add a targeting rule to, click and select Edit.
55.. Click Next.
66.. If you are adding a targeting rule to a personalization point that uses a static banner with a call to
action, click Next to skip configuring the Personalization attributes.
77.. In the Targeting Rules window, select when you want the targeting rule to take affect.
Option Description
Always (No Conditions) No conditions are imposed. All visitors are eligible to receive the
personalized content.
All Conditions Are Met If all conditions are met for a visitor, they’re eligible to receive the
personalized content.
Any Condition Is Met If any one of the conditions is met for a visitor, they’re eligible to
receive the personalized content.
88.. Click Add Condition. You can add up to 50 conditions to a personalization decision.
99.. Select the resource that you want the condition to use.
Clicking a resource opens a menu extension showing additional options that you can select.
Resource Option Description
Direct Attributes Use direct attributes on the root object of the data graph.
Related Attributes Use related attributes on the root object of the data graph.
Segments Use available segment memberships defined at the root of the data
graph.
Calculated Insights Use available calculated insights defined at the root of the data
graph.
Predictive Models Use the available Einstein Studio models that are mapped to a real-
time data graph in Einstein Studio.
Scheduling Use date range or day and time selections to define when
121

=== PAGE 126 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
Resource Option Description
personalized content is available and displayed following a
personalization request.
Source Specify a URL to use in the decision request. For example, create a
targeting rule to return decisions only when an individual visits a
specific web page or when a URL ends with a specific path.
UTM Parameters Target Urchin Tracking Module (UTM) parameters in a URL. For
example, create a targeting rule to return decisions only when an
individual accesses a web page that contains a specific UTM value.
Visit Context Specify a page type, such as a home, product, or category page with
a decision request. For example, create a targeting rule that returns
decisions when an individual accesses certain web pages.
1100.. Configure the operator, relevant values, or both to define the targeting rule condition.
1111.. Save your work.
See Also
Configure a Personalization Point
Create a Personalization Campaign
Modify a Decision
Add a Merge Field
Modify a Decision
You can change decision properties or priority for a personalization point.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To modify decisions:
Create and Edit Personalization Points
Create and Edit Personalization Decisions
Warning Modifying decisions in personalization points that list their source as Personalization
Campaign can impact what personalized content appears to customers in all mapped channels for
that campaign.
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Personalization Points.
22.. Open a personalization point record, and click the Related tab.
33.. To modify decision properties:
aa.. Click the action menu for a decision and select Edit.
122

=== PAGE 127 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
bb.. Make any desired changes to the decision.
See Add a Decision to a Personalization Point for details.
cc.. Save your work.
44.. To change priority, select a priority option in the action menu for the decision that you want to change.
Increase priority moves a decision up one row in the list. Decrease priority moves a decision down one
row.
55.. To filter decisions for this personalization point:
aa.. Make sure that you are viewing all of the decisions for the personalization point by clicking View All
at the bottom of the personalization decisions table.
If you don’t see View All at the bottom of the table, you are already viewing all of the decisions.
bb.. Click the quick filters icon to open the filter options.
cc.. Make any filter changes and click Apply.
See Also
Configure a Personalization Point
Create a Targeting Rule
Add a Decision to a Personalization Point
Add a Merge Field
To include profile data in personalization decision text, use merge fields.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To add merge fields to personalization decisions:
Create and Edit Personalization Points
Create and Edit Personalization Decisions
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Personalization Points.
22.. Open a personalization point.
33.. Create or select a personalization decision.
44.. On the Decision Configuration tab, click Add Merge Field next to a personalization attribute text field.
55.. Select an attribute that you want to add as a merge field. You can select either direct attributes or
segment memberships.
••
Direct attributes provide attributes that are defined on the root data model object (DMO) of your
profile data graph.
••
Segment memberships list all segment IDs that the individual is a member of.
For an example of how to render segment membership data on your website, see Display Segment
123

=== PAGE 128 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
Membership in Merge Fields (Example).
Note If you want the segments to be selectable, add the segment memberships object to your
profile data graph and select the segment ID field on the data graph definition.
66.. Enter an API name for the merge field. The API name is auto-generated for a direct attribute, however
you can edit the name if you prefer. Segment memberships have a per-defined API name.
77.. Enter the default text that you want to appear in place of the merge field when no attribute value is
found.
For example, If you provide “Valued Customer” as a default text for first name, Salesforce
Personalization replaces “Dear {first_name}” with “Dear Valued Customer” if no value is found for the
first name. If you don't want any text to appear or if you want to use the available reference template
to render segment memberships, leave this field blank.
88.. Click Save.
Display Segment Membership in Merge Fields (Example)
To deliver Data 360 segment membership IDs on your website, use merge fields. In this example, we
show you how to personalize customer experience by displaying Data 360 segment membership
information on your website.
Display Segment Membership in Merge Fields (Example)
To deliver Data 360 segment membership IDs on your website, use merge fields. In this example, we
show you how to personalize customer experience by displaying Data 360 segment membership
information on your website.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To add merge fields to personalization decisions:
Create and Edit Personalization Points
Create and Edit Personalization Decisions
11.. Create a Manual Content personalization response template and add Segments as a personalization
attribute. See Configure a Personalization Response Template.
22.. Create a Handlebars web experience template for your website connector.
This enables business users to select the template in the Web Personalization Manager (WPM) and
deliver segment membership data directly to the page. See Create an Experience Template.
33.. Create a personalization point using the response template you created in step 1.
The personalization point acts as the bridge between your data and the web experience.
44.. Add a decision to the personalization point.
55.. Configure a Segment Memberships merge field on the available personalization attribute. See Add a
124

=== PAGE 129 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Experiences
Merge Field.
To ensure that the necessary data is available to the page at runtime, make sure that the profile data
graph used in your personalization point includes the Segments object related to the root DMO.
Additionally, within the Data Graph definition, verify that the Segment ID field is selected
66.. Update the sitemap.
To ensure that the segment memberships returned in a personalization decision response are properly
written to both the console and window object, add this snippet to the sitemap or directly to the site.
/* START: External Segments */
SalesforceInteractions.Personalization.Config.ContentZoneHandler.set("Expor
t_Segments", {
onReady: (content) => {
let segments = []
try {
segments = JSON.parse(content)
} catch(err) {
// Handle parsing error
}
console.log("segments returned are: ", segments);
window.sfdcSegments = segments;
}
});
/* END: External Segments */
77.. Deploy a new experience to your site using Web Personalization Manager (WPM).
aa.. Open Web Personalization Manager on your website and navigate to the target page. See Access
Web Personalization Manager.
bb.. Create an experience and select Configure Embedded Content.
cc.. Select your segment's personalization point and click Next.
dd.. In the Location panel, set your target.
••
To target the current page, use Page URL or Page Type.
••
To target every page, use URL Address with a wildcard (for example, https://example.com/*).
ee.. In the Display Method section, select Content Zone Handler and select the content zone that you
added while configuring the sitemap.
ff.. Publish the experience on the site. See Publish a Personalization Experience.
Personalization Experiences
Create and manage personalization experiences and experience templates to deliver targeted content to
your customers.
125

=== PAGE 130 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Experiences
About Personalization Experiences
A personalization experience is a set of instructions for rendering results and specifying where they
appear. For example, a personalization experience can define that a personalization point shows
product recommendations on every product page, after the "Product Details" section, as soon as the
page loads.
Web Personalization Manager for Salesforce Personalization
Salesforce Personalization in Marketing Cloud Next can manage personalized content on non-
Salesforce websites. Use Web Personalization Manager to create and refresh tailored experiences that
appear at the right moment and location using customer interaction data captured by Salesforce
Interactions Web SDK, along with AI-driven recommendations. You can create multiple
personalization experiences and designate specific ones for different pages of your website, improving
relevance and visitor engagement.
About Personalization Experiences
A personalization experience is a set of instructions for rendering results and specifying where they
appear. For example, a personalization experience can define that a personalization point shows product
recommendations on every product page, after the "Product Details" section, as soon as the page loads.
Use an experience template to map content schema fields to the front-end output. Select a channel such
as web, and then identify the HTML code used to render recommendations.
Here's how a personalization experience fits into a customer's journey.
11.. A customer browses your website and views several outdoor gear products.
22.. Salesforce Personalization detects the customer's interest based on their real-time behavior.
33.. A personalization experience activates and delivers a targeted banner that promotes hiking boots.
44.. On the web page, the banner appears in the layout defined by an experience template, populated
with relevant products based on the customer's Data 360 profile.
Managing and Delivering Personalization Experiences
To create, preview, and manage a personalization experience, use the Web Personalization Manager
(WPM). WPM lets you work directly on your website to simulate decisions for specific users and enable
or disable configurations in a controlled environment.
Experience Templates
An experience template provides a structural layout for how personalized content, such as a hero
banner or product carousel, appears to customers. The template transforms raw data from the
personalization engine into specific variables, such as a product name or image URL, with the help of a
guided interface.
See Also
Experience Templates
Web Personalization Manager for Salesforce Personalization
126

=== PAGE 131 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Experiences
Experience Templates
An experience template provides a structural layout for how personalized content, such as a hero banner
or product carousel, appears to customers. The template transforms raw data from the personalization
engine into specific variables, such as a product name or image URL, with the help of a guided interface.
Note Salesforce automatically migrates any templates that you previously created to experience
templates. If migration doesn't occur, contact Salesforce Customer Support.
Instead of hard-coding logic into your site's sitemap or SDK, you define how data is processed directly
within the Personalization app. A single template can handle different data scenarios, such as displaying
"Recent Articles" or "Recommended Products".
Ways to Build Templates
An experience template supports different template types, each suited to a different kind of experience.
Handlebars
Create dynamic web content by separating visual structure from data using this simple HTML
templating language. Configure and inject personalized HTML content into your website pages to
match your website styles. See What is Handlebars?.
Agent Script
Create experience templates to build and power agentic experiences. Agent Script combines
natural language instructions for conversational tasks with programmatic expressions for
business rules. Use expressions to define if-then-else conditions, transitions, and loops to build
predictable, context-aware workflows. This template type manages state variables and specifies
when an agent transitions between topics or sequences actions. See Agent Script.
Global Templates
For complete control over layout and logic, you can code a custom experience template from the ground
up. To get a headstart, try a preconfigured blueprint. These global templates offer a streamlined way to
create an experience template without extensive manual configuration.
By starting with a global template, such as a hero banner template, you start with a standard structure
and logic. The template includes recommended data mappings and guidance for Data 360 ingestion.
Use it as a foundation, and then modify it for your brand's specific design and requirements.
While the experience template controls what appears in the final output, a global template is for internal
use and helps you build that experience template faster.
127

=== PAGE 132 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Experiences
Template Variables
Variables act as placeholders that collect field values from a Response Template to create experience
templates. They provide the necessary structure for your template code, allowing you to build and
organize personalized experiences for your website.
Create an Experience Template
Set up an experience template to use predefined structures for a personalization experience. You can
build the template from scratch or use a predefined global template.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create and edit experience templates: Personalization Admin
11.. Define template properties.
aa.. On the Personalization app, select Experience Templates, and click New.
bb.. Select the data space, and select Web as the channel.
cc.. Enter a unique template name and an API name.
dd.. Click Next.
22.. Connect to your site.
aa.. Choose the specific websites where you want to use the template.
bb.. Click Next.
33.. Choose a template type and creation method.
aa.. Select a template type.
bb.. Select a template creation method.
••
To prepopulate your experience template with an existing layout, select Global template.
••
To build a custom layout from a blank page, select Start from scratch.
cc.. If you use a global template, select a foundational starting point from the Global Template list.
dd.. Click Next.
44.. Define data variables and map them.
aa.. Select the Personalization Response Template that defines your data fields.
bb.. Define or review your template variables.
••
When you select a global template, the Variables list is automatically populated based on that
template's structure. Review, or update the Label and API Name for each variable.
••
When you start from a blank page, define the placeholders for your content. To use variables
based on your Response Template, click Populate from Response Template. To define variables
manually, click Add Variable, and then enter a label and a unique API Name.
cc.. In the Default Value field for each variable, select the attribute from your response template that
corresponds to it.
For example, map an image variable to a background URL attribute from your response template.
128

=== PAGE 133 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Experiences
dd.. Add any new variables that you need, and define their default values.
ee.. To control variable behavior for agentic experiences, such as making a variable required or
overridable, see Template Variables Advanced Options.
ff.. Click Next.
55.. Customize and validate your template code.
aa.. Review the values. To add content or modify existing elements, update the code in the editor. To
include dynamic content, select a variable from the Select variable… list, and then click Insert.
bb.. To prevent tracking user interactions with this content, such as views and clicks, select Turn off
auto-engagement tracking. By default, tracking is enabled.
66.. To store your changes and continue later, click Save. To activate the template, click Save & Activate.
Now that your experience template is ready, you can use it in WPM to create a personalization
experience that delivers content to your customers. See Use Templates.
See Also
Connect a Website or Mobile App to Data 360
Configure a Personalization Point
Track Personalization Engagement
Configure a Personalization Response Template
Template Variables Advanced Options
These advanced options are primarily for building agentic experiences. For standard experience
templates, use the default configurations.
Option Description
Specifies whether the variable must have a value
at runtime. The value can come from the default
Is Required
template value or an overridden value set during a
personalization experience configuration.
Defines if the default variable value can be
Is Overridable changed when a user configures a personalization
experience in Web Personalization Manager.
Specifies the source of the variable's default value.
•
Schema Path: Uses an attribute from the
selected response template. Schema Path is the
Config Type
recommended default for standard templates.
•
Static Value: Accepts a manually provided text
value. Used mainly for agent scripts.
Delete Removes the variable from the template.
129

=== PAGE 134 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Experiences
Web Personalization Manager for Salesforce Personalization
Salesforce Personalization in Marketing Cloud Next can manage personalized content on non-Salesforce
websites. Use Web Personalization Manager to create and refresh tailored experiences that appear at the
right moment and location using customer interaction data captured by Salesforce Interactions Web
SDK, along with AI-driven recommendations. You can create multiple personalization experiences and
designate specific ones for different pages of your website, improving relevance and visitor engagement.
Prerequisites
Before using Web Personalization Manager, you need to configure the Salesforce Interactions Web
SDK, set up personalization points, and ensure users have the necessary permissions.
Access Web Personalization Manager
Accessing Web Personalization Manager requires only appending a simple query string to your website
URL.
Creating a Personalization Experience
A personalization experience helps you tailor the content displayed on your website, ensuring that it
appears at the right moment and location. Each personalization experience is based on an available
personalization point. You can create multiple personalization experiences and designate specific ones
for different web pages. When creating a personalization experience, you can use an experience
template or personalize page elements yourself.
Preview the Experience
After creating personalized content, you can use the Web Personalization Manager to preview the
content from the perspective of specific site visitors. The preview function helps ensure a consistent
and engaging personalized experience before publishing.
Publish a Personalization Experience
When you’re ready to publish a personalization experience, you can confirm the changes and save
them.
Prerequisites
Before using Web Personalization Manager, you need to configure the Salesforce Interactions Web SDK,
set up personalization points, and ensure users have the necessary permissions.
•
Configure the Web SDK using Personalize Web Experiences with the Salesforce Interactions SDK.
•
Make sure to configure personalization points. A personalization point integrates the data space,
profile data graph, personalization type, and response template to deliver personalized content. See
Configure a Personalization Point.
•
Users need a Personalization Admin or Personalization User permission set to access Web
Personalization Manager. For more information, see Personalization Standard Permission Sets.
•
Enable third-party cookies in your browser to use Web Personalization Manager securely.
See Also
Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
Customize Permission Sets
130

=== PAGE 135 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Experiences
Developers: Personalize Web Experiences with the Salesforce Interactions SDK
Access Web Personalization Manager
Accessing Web Personalization Manager requires only appending a simple query string to your website
URL.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To access Web Personalization Manager Web Personalization Manager user permission set
Note To use Web Personalization Manager on Web SDK enabled websites, Data 360 users need to
enable third-party cookies in the browser. For example, see Allow third-party cookies for a specific
site.
11.. Access your Web SDK-enabled website page.
22.. Add the string ?sf_personalization_wpm at the end of the URL and press return.
If parameters are already present in the URL, add &sf_personalization_wpm at the end.
Note To access Web Personalization Manager in a sandbox environment, add
sf_personalization_wpm&sf_personalization_wpm_env=prod_sandbox at the end of the
URL.Example:
https://example.com/?sf_personalization_wpm&sf_personalization_wpm_env=prod_sandbox
33.. In the window that opens, enter your Salesforce credentials.
If the log in window doesn't open, disable your browser's popup blocker and click Log In from the
resulting prompt.
Create a Bookmarklet
To activate Web Personalization Manager on your website without manually adding the string to the
URL each time, you can create a browser bookmarklet in Google Chrome.
See Also
Create a Bookmarklet
Salesforce Personalization and Data 360 Setup
Developers: Personalize Web Experiences with the Salesforce Interactions SDK
Create a Bookmarklet
To activate Web Personalization Manager on your website without manually adding the string to the URL
each time, you can create a browser bookmarklet in Google Chrome.
11.. Open Google Chrome.
22.. Click the vertical ellipsis (menu) in the top-right corner of the page.
33.. Select Bookmarks and Lists, and then click Bookmark Manager.
131

=== PAGE 136 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Experiences
44.. Click the vertical ellipsis menu (more options) in the top-right of the Bookmarks page, and select Add
new bookmark.
55.. Name your bookmarklet.
66.. Copy and paste the following JavaScript code in the URL field:
javascript:SalesforceInteractions.Personalization.launchWpm()
After creating the bookmarklet, you can drag it to the Bookmarks menu bar and click it to open the Web
Personalization Manager on your website.
See Also
Access Web Personalization Manager
Creating a Personalization Experience
A personalization experience helps you tailor the content displayed on your website, ensuring that it
appears at the right moment and location. Each personalization experience is based on an available
personalization point. You can create multiple personalization experiences and designate specific ones
for different web pages. When creating a personalization experience, you can use an experience
template or personalize page elements yourself.
Manually Personalize Page Elements
The Web Personalization Manager enables you to modify HTML elements manually. Using the visual
editor interface, you can select multiple elements on individual web pages, and modify attributes to
provide personalized content to site visitors.
Use Experience Templates
You can use custom experience templates to add your personalized content to the website, or replace
existing content with personalized options. Experience templates offer the benefits of reuse and
extensive styling flexibility, enabling you to customize a wide range of attributes efficiently. Experience
templates also provide faster creation, support for personalization features like product
recommendations, and greater stability, especially on complex pages.
See Also
Prerequisites
Personalization Points in Salesforce Personalization
Configure a Personalization Point
Manually Personalize Page Elements
The Web Personalization Manager enables you to modify HTML elements manually. Using the visual
editor interface, you can select multiple elements on individual web pages, and modify attributes to
provide personalized content to site visitors.
11.. From the Personalization Experiences menu in Web Personalization Manager, select New.
22.. Select Embedded Content, and click Next.
Note To learn more about the Web Curation Agent experience or for assistance with setup,
132

=== PAGE 137 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Experiences
contact your account executive.
33.. Select the button next to the personalization point that you want to base the personalization
experience on.
Web Personalization Manager displays only personalization points in the data space you've configured
in the website's sitemap.
44.. (Optional) To create a new personalization point, click Create Personalization Point.
A window opens enabling you to create and configure a personalization point. After you finish creating
the personalization point, you can then return to the selection window to choose it.
55.. Click Next.
66.. Click Select and Modify Existing Elements and click Next.
77.. From the Location tab in the Editor panel, specify the page option where you want to display the
personalized content.
••
To display the personalization experience on all website pages of the type you’re currently on, select
Current Page Type.
For example, selecting this option on a Product Detail Page type duplicates the experience on all
product detail pages on the website.
••
To select pages based on a URL, select Page URL and specify a URL.
Using wildcards, you can apply the personalization to multiple pages. For example, you can use a
wildcard for the page name to apply the personalization to all pages in a specific path, such as
https://mysite.com/product/*.html.
88.. Under Page Element Selection, click Select Element.
99.. On the element selection page, hover over the element that you want to use, wait until it’s highlighted,
and then click it.
1100.. (Optional) To select the top-level element that includes the currently selected element, click Select
Parent.
Tip You can use the Page Element field to add the CSS code for the elements or make changes to
existing ones.
1111.. To add more elements, click Add Element.
1122.. After you finish adding elements, click the Content tab.
1133.. Select the type of engagement that you want to track from the Engagement Destination menu. For
more information, see Track Personalization Engagement.
1144.. For each element you choose, select the personalized content attribute that you want to display.
1155.. Click the Preview Settings tab.
preview option action
Enable this option if you want to display
highlighted overlays around personalized content
Show Overlays
when previewing your personalization
experience.
Enable this option if you want to preview the
Show All Personalization Experiences
current experience along with all the other
133

=== PAGE 138 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Experiences
preview option action
personalization experiences created on the page.
1166.. (Optional) Enter a different Individual ID if you want to preview the personalization experience from
the perspective of a different user.
1177.. Click Save.
See Also
Use Experience Templates
Preview the Experience
Use Experience Templates
You can use custom experience templates to add your personalized content to the website, or replace
existing content with personalized options. Experience templates offer the benefits of reuse and
extensive styling flexibility, enabling you to customize a wide range of attributes efficiently. Experience
templates also provide faster creation, support for personalization features like product
recommendations, and greater stability, especially on complex pages.
To configure customized experience templates for use with Web Personalization Manager, see
Experience Templates.
11.. From the Personalization Experiences menu in Web Personalization Manager, select New.
22.. Select Embedded Content, and click Next.
Note To learn more about the Web Curation Agent experience or for assistance with setup,
contact your account executive.
33.. Select the button next to the personalization point that you want to base the personalization
experience on.
Web Personalization Manager displays only personalization points in the data space you've configured
in the website's sitemap.
44.. (Optional) To create a new personalization point, click Create Personalization Point.
A window opens enabling you to create and configure a personalization point. After you finish creating
the personalization point, you can then return to the selection window to choose it.
55.. Click Next.
66.. Select an experience template and click Next.
77.. From the Location tab in the Editor panel, specify the page option where you want to display the
personalized content.
••
To display the personalization experience on all website pages of the type you’re currently on, select
Current Page Type.
For example, selecting this option on a Product Detail Page type duplicates the experience on all
product detail pages on the website.
••
To select pages based on a URL, select Page URL and specify a URL.
Using wildcards, you can apply the personalization to multiple pages. For example, you can use a
wildcard for the page name to apply the personalization to all pages in a specific path, such as
134

=== PAGE 139 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Experiences
https://mysite.com/product/*.html.
88.. Under Display Method, select how you want to display the content.
display method action
To replace the content zone, select a predefined
zone from the Content Zone dropdown, and
Replace a Content Zone
replace it with the content defined in the
experience template.
To use a content zone handler registered on your
website, select the required handler from the
Content Zone Handler dropdown.
This option is available only if your website uses a
Use Content Zone Handler
frontend framework and a content handler has
been registered for a component. For more
information, see Integrate Personalization with
Modern Frontend Frameworks.
To replace an element with personalized content
from the experience template, hover over the
Replace an Element
element that you want to select until it’s
highlighted, and click it.
To add personalized content from the experience
template before a specific element on the web
Add Before an Element
page, hover over the element until it’s
highlighted, and click it.
To add personalized content from the experience
template after a specific element on the web
Add After an Element
page, hover over the element until it’s
highlighted, and click it.
An overlay is a layer of content that you place on
top of existing content to provide contextual
recommendations. From the When to Display
dropdown, select an option to add an overlying
layer of content where you want to add the
recommendation defined in the experience
Add an Overlay
template depending on user interaction.
••
Immediately—Displays an overlay as soon as
personalized content is received.
••
Exit Intent—Displays an overlay when you move
the cursor to the top of the screen, indicating
an intention to change tabs or close the
135

=== PAGE 140 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Experiences
display method action
browser. You can set a delay value to schedule
the overlay.
••
Element Click—Displays an overlay when you
click a specific element on the page. Click
Select Element, and select a targeted element
on the page to specify the element.
••
Scroll Percentage—Shows an overlay when you
scroll the page. You can specify a certain
amount of scroll before the overlay appears.
99.. After you select the display method, click Content.
1100.. From the Engagement Destination menu, select the type of engagement that you want to track. For
more information, see Track Personalization Engagement.
1111.. (Optional) Select a different experience template from the Selected Template list.
1122.. Click the Preview Settings tab.
preview option action
Enable this option if you want to display
highlighted overlays around personalized content
Show Overlays
when previewing your personalization
experience.
Enable this option if you want to preview the
Show All Personalization Experiences current experience along with all the other
personalization experiences created on the page.
1133.. (Optional) Enter a different Individual ID if you want to preview the personalization experience from
the perspective of a different user.
1144.. Click Save.
See Also
Manually Personalize Page Elements
Preview the Experience
Preview the Experience
After creating personalized content, you can use the Web Personalization Manager to preview the
content from the perspective of specific site visitors. The preview function helps ensure a consistent and
engaging personalized experience before publishing.
11.. From the Personalization Experiences menu option, select a personalization experience.
To create an experience, see Creating a Personalization Experience.
22.. From the Personalization Decisions and Cohorts menu, select a decision or cohort that you want to
base the preview experience on.
136

=== PAGE 141 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Campaigns
option description
Choose a decision from the menu to preview the
personalized content solely based on the
Select a preconfigured decision
decision you select, and ignoring any
preconfigured targeting rules.
When an experiment is defined on the
personalization point, the cohorts defined for the
experiment appear at the top of the selection
Select a cohort
menu. To preview personalized content curated
for a particular group, select the cohort for that
specific sampling.
Select this option to preview personalized results
Select Current User Decision generated using targeting rules for the current
user.
33.. Click Preview.
See Also
Manually Personalize Page Elements
Use Experience Templates
Create an Experiment
Publish a Personalization Experience
When you’re ready to publish a personalization experience, you can confirm the changes and save them.
11.. Make sure to save any changes.
22.. When you're ready to publish, set the State toggle to Enabled.
33.. Click Save to publish the experience.
Important To ensure that you’re ready to go live, no changes to a personalization experience are
published until you set the State to Enabled, and click Save again to confirm the publish action.
See Also
Preview the Experience
Personalization Campaigns
Use a guided configuration workflow to create a personalization campaign.
Prerequisites for the Personalization Campaign Guided Configuration
Before using the guided campaign configuration, we recommend that you verify certain required
components are in place. Having these components defined can make for a more efficient and
137

=== PAGE 142 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Campaigns
streamlined configuration experience.
Using the Personalization Campaign Guided Configuration
Personalization campaign configuration uses a guided workflow to create and test personalized
content before deploying it.
Create a Personalization Campaign
Configure a personalization campaign using a guided configuration process that steps you through
creating, mapping, and deploying a personalized experience.
Map a Campaign Using Web Personalization Manager
Before you can use a campaign, you must map it to a channel location. You can then test the
campaign using the Web Personalization Manager (WPM).
Prerequisites for the Personalization Campaign Guided
Configuration
Before using the guided campaign configuration, we recommend that you verify certain required
components are in place. Having these components defined can make for a more efficient and
streamlined configuration experience.
Contact your Salesforce admin to verify that these components are configured before you begin.
Component Documentation Notes
Data Space About Data Spaces All Salesforce orgs running Data
360 have a default data space.
Profile Data Graph Create Required Data Graphs You can choose from only profile
data graphs that are configured
in the data space you select.
Data 360 Web Connector Configure a Data 360 Web Only web marketing channel
Connector deployment is currently
supported. When configuring
the Data 360 Web Connector,
make sure to define the optional
base URL setting. Personalization
uses the URL when launching
the Web Personalization
Manager (WPM) to test and
deploy the campaign.
Personalization Content Schema Configure a Personalization Only content schemas
(formerly called Response Content Schema configured using the dynamic
Templates) content personalization type are
currently supported.
138

=== PAGE 143 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Campaigns
Component Documentation Notes
Experience Templates Experience Templates Experience templates provide
structural layout for how
personalized content, such as a
hero banner or product carousel,
appears to customers. A
template transforms raw data
from personalization into
specific variables, such as a
product name or image URL,
with the help of a guided
interface.
See Also
Using the Personalization Campaign Guided Configuration
Create a Personalization Campaign
Map a Campaign Using Web Personalization Manager
Using the Personalization Campaign Guided Configuration
Personalization campaign configuration uses a guided workflow to create and test personalized content
before deploying it.
Using the guided configuration provides several advantages:
•
Efficiency: Using a wizard-like workflow, the guided campaign configuration provides a more user-
friendly alternative to the original, multi-step configuration process. Upon completion, the workflow
results in a fully-configured, testable, and deployable personalized content experience.
•
Clarity: Campaign creation uses industry-standard terminology that aligns with marketer mental
models. It also uses a simplified, uninterrupted procedure to streamline personalization content
creation, assignment, and deployment, reducing the chance for errors.
•
Consistency: Configuration uses content schemas (formerly response templates) and predefined out
of the box or Admin-defined templates to ensure all decision responses return data in an expected,
uniform format.
•
Automated Defaults: The creation process pre-populates API names and provides selection options
based on the selected data space and defined profile data graph options.
Using the personalization campaign guided configuration process not only enables you to select the
necessary underlying personalization components for a personalized experience, but also to map,
deploy, and test the campaign using the Web Personalization Manager (WPM).
See Also
Prerequisites for the Personalization Campaign Guided Configuration
Create a Personalization Campaign
Map a Campaign Using Web Personalization Manager
139

=== PAGE 144 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Campaigns
Create a Personalization Campaign
Configure a personalization campaign using a guided configuration process that steps you through
creating, mapping, and deploying a personalized experience.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure a Personalization campaign Personalization User
To create a personalization campaign:
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Personalization Campaigns.
22.. Click New Campaign
33.. Specify a name for the campaign and an optional description.
The API name is auto-generated.
44.. Click Continue.
55.. Select a data space to use for the campaign. The data space that you select determines what data is
available for use in the campaign.
If your business has multiple data spaces that separate various brands or departments, make sure to
select the appropriate data space for your campaign business goals.
66.. Select a profile data graph. The menu shows only profile data graphs contained in the selected data
space.
A profile data graph combines and organizes object data into a structured view that Personalization
uses to determine what individuals (for example, customers or site visitors) are eligible to receive
personalized content. The data graph enables near real-time retrieval of unified customer profiles,
based on gathered behavior and engagement data.
77.. Select a strategy for the personalization campaign.
Personalization campaign creation currently supports the Dynamic Content strategy. This strategy
enables you to define content attributes and apply them using predefined templates.
88.. Select a marketing channel that you want the campaign to use.
Options provided are specific to the selected channel. Personalization campaign creation currently
supports only a web marketing channel option.
99.. Select a predefined Data 360 web connector that you want to use for deploying the campaign and
click Next.
1100.. Select a content schema. The content schema is channel independent and defines available attributes
for the campaign. Selecting a content schema displays available templates for use with the selected
channel.
1111.. Select an experience template to use with the campaign. Experience templates are channel
dependent and define how personalized content appears on a website.
1122.. Define a decision and its associated content for the campaign.
Personalization decisions use targeting rules to determine who’s eligible to receive personalization
response and what content to return.
aa.. Name the decision.
140

=== PAGE 145 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Campaigns
bb.. (Optional) Specify a priority for the decision. By default a single decision has a priority of 1. When
you create multiple decisions, it’s possible for individuals to qualify for more than one. By prioritizing
decisions, you can define what decision Personalization returns to individuals.
cc.. Choose a status for the decision. All decisions are enabled by default. However, you can choose to
disable a decision and re-enable it when you want to use it.
dd.. In the Template Preview section, define the content that you want the decision to provide.
Depending on the template you select, this content can contain various options including call-to-
action (CTA) text, header or subheader text, background images, and so on.
ee.. (Optional) Add any merge fields for the content you define in the template. Using merge fields
enables you to include profile data directly into your text. For example, you can include your user's
first name within a text-based element to greet them personally. See Add a Merge Field for more
information.
ff.. (Optional) Add any targeting rules to define who is eligible for the decision.
If no targeting rules are defined, the decision content is made available to all individuals. For more
information about targeting rules, see Create a Targeting Rule
gg.. (Optional) Add a new decision.
Personalization campaigns can contain multiple personalization decisions targeted at different sets
of individuals. The order you create decisions in initially determines their priority. However, you can
modify the priority of any decision you create.
hh.. Click Next.
The Personalization Campaign Details page opens to show the full campaign configuration.
1133.. (Optional) To make any changes to the campaign, use the Back button to navigate to the page that
you want to modify.
1144.. Click Save and Finish.
Personalization creates the campaign. Before you can use the campaign, you must map it to a
channel.
1155.. (Optional) To exit the campaign configuration without mapping it, close the prompt window. You can
finish mapping the campaign at any time from the Related tab in the campaign record.
1166.. To map the campaign, click Continue to mapping.
Personalization opens the campaign record Related tab. Go to Map a Campaign Using Web
Personalization Manager to continue.
Personalization campaigns appear in the Personalization Campaigns tab after they're created. In this tab
you can edit, delete, or view individual campaigns.
Warning Editing decisions in a campaign impacts what personalized content appears to customers
in all mapped channels for that campaign.
The personalization point created during the guided campaign configuration process appears in the
Personalization Points tab. Personalization points created through the campaign process show a
Personalization Campaign designation in the Source column of the Personalization Points table.
See Also
Prerequisites for the Personalization Campaign Guided Configuration
Using the Personalization Campaign Guided Configuration
141

=== PAGE 146 ===
Salesforce Personalization Personalization Campaigns
Map a Campaign Using Web Personalization Manager
Assign a Default Data Graph to a Data Space
Configure a Personalization Content Schema
Add a Decision to a Personalization Point
Create a Targeting Rule
Map a Campaign Using Web Personalization Manager
Before you can use a campaign, you must map it to a channel location. You can then test the campaign
using the Web Personalization Manager (WPM).
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To map a Personalization campaign Personalization User
To map a personalization campaign:
11.. If you are finishing mapping a location for a new campaign, skip to step 5.
22.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Personalization Campaigns.
33.. Locate the campaign that you want to map in the campaigns table and select View from the action
menu.
44.. Select the Related tab in the campaign record.
55.. In the Related tab, at the bottom of the campaign mapping card, click Finish mapping location.
Web Personalization Manager opens using the web site URL associated with the web connector
defined for the campaign. Because you access Web Personalization Manager directly from the record,
there’s no need to log in.
66.. Navigate to the desired web page, and locate the element on the webpage where you want the
experience template values to appear.
77.. Click Select Element from the WPM Location tab, and then hover over and select the element on the
page that you want to use.
88.. To preview the experience and validate the configuration, click Preview at the top of the website page.
99.. After you finish previewing the campaign, cancel the preview, and toggle the campaign state to
Enabled.
1100.. To go live with your campaign, click Save.
See Also
Prerequisites for the Personalization Campaign Guided Configuration
Using the Personalization Campaign Guided Configuration
Create a Personalization Campaign
Web Personalization Manager for Salesforce Personalization
Access Web Personalization Manager
Create an Experience Template
142

=== PAGE 147 ===
Salesforce Personalization Experimentation
Experimentation
Experiments provide customer insights that help you make better decisions. Create experiments with
Salesforce Personalization in Marketing Cloud Next to learn which personalized and agentic experiences
resonate best with your customers.
Experiment Considerations
When creating and running an experiment, keep these considerations in mind.
Create an Experiment
Create and run experiments to determine which recommender or personalized content performs best
for a defined personalization point. Selecting metrics for the experiment to measure, and creating
targeting rules for selecting eligible participants, you can test recommender effectiveness against
control and variant cohorts that you define.
Manage an Experiment
When you configure and save a personalization experiment and save it, its status is Created. You can
start, stop, archive, edit or delete an experiment at any time from the personalization point Related
tab.
Experimentation Example: Recommender Comparison
Experimentation supports various test scenarios. These scenarios can include testing personalized
dynamic content, recommender-based content, or agent-based experiences. This experiment tests a
rule-based recommender against an objective-based recommender to determine which option
performs better.
View Experiment Analytics
You can view results for an experiment using the experiment dashboard. You can view analytics for
only active experiments in the Started or Archived state.
Troubleshooting Experiment Analytics
Use the information in this section to supplement any experiment analytics errors.
Using Experiment Analytics
Use the experiment analytics dashboard to control an experiment and view experiment results. The
dashboard provides both summary and detailed results for the measures selected when configuring
the experiment in .Salesforce Personalization
Experiment Considerations
When creating and running an experiment, keep these considerations in mind.
•
Because you configure experiments on personalization points, the experiments inherit properties used
to configure that personalization point. These inherited properties appear on the first page of the
experiment configuration, and are used by the experiment. For example, the profile data graph is
inherited from the personalization point. Profile data graph DMOs and selected fields are used to filter
engagement signal metrics available for selection as primary and secondary metrics during
experiment configuration.. The response template is also inherited from the personalization point. The
response template setting determines whether the experiment tests recommendations, content, or
143

=== PAGE 148 ===
Salesforce Personalization Experimentation
some other custom experience, like a Salesforce agent.
•
If an individual is eligible to participate in an experiment based on configured targeting rules, they can
join that experiment. Qualifying individuals remain in the same cohort they’re assigned for the
duration of the experiment. As long as individuals qualify, they can also participate in multiple
experiments simultaneously.
•
No matter what percentage of total eligible participants you assign to a cohort, each cohort must
include a participant sample size of at least 1,000. This limit ensures proper statistical evaluation for
chance to beat all and chance to beat control calculations.
•
The first cohort is always the control. When you configure a control cohort, each variation cohort tests
its variation against the control variation. The resulting calculation indicates a percentage chance of
beating control in the experiment's analytics.
•
You can choose not to configure a control cohort. In this case, you defer responses for the control
cohort to use already-configured personalization decisions already configured on the personalization
point.
•
Weighted analysis is supported, so you can create cohorts of different traffic sizes. However, the total
percentage of cohorts must equal 100%. Any unallocated percentage is automatically applied to the
control cohort.
See Also
Create an Experiment
Manage an Experiment
View Experiment Analytics
Using Experiment Analytics
Create an Experiment
Create and run experiments to determine which recommender or personalized content performs best
for a defined personalization point. Selecting metrics for the experiment to measure, and creating
targeting rules for selecting eligible participants, you can test recommender effectiveness against control
and variant cohorts that you define.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create an experiment: Personalization Points
Experiments
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Personalization Points.
22.. Open the personalization point that you want to create an experiment for.
33.. From the Related tab, in the Experiment section, click New.
The New Experiment page opens and shows any inherited personalization point properties that the
experiment uses when generating results.
44.. Enter an experiment name, and an optional description.
The experiment API name is auto-generated.
144

=== PAGE 149 ===
Salesforce Personalization Experimentation
55.. Click Next
66.. Select the primary metric that you want this experiment to test against.
This metric determines which variation wins across all cohorts defined for the experiment.
Note If your engagement signal metric isn't showing, ensure its signal and metric DMOs and
fields are in the personalization point's profile data graph.
77.. (Optional) Select any secondary metrics in the Available window and move them to the Selected
window.
88.. Click Next
99.. (Optional) Define any targeting rules that you want to use to select only a portion of the population for
this experiment, instead of allowing the full population to participate in the experiment.
aa.. Define how you want the experiment to select individuals.
OPTION DESCRIPTION
Always (No Conditions) This option enables all visitors to participate in the experiment and
engage with the personalized content.
All Conditions Are Met If all conditions are met for a visitor, they can participate in the
experiment and engage with the personalized content. This option
requires that you add at least one condition or group.
Any Condition Is Met If any one of the conditions is met for a visitor, they can participate
in the experiment and engage with the personalized content. This
option requires that you add at least one condition or group.
bb.. (Optional) Click Add Condition.
You can also choose to add groups of conditions. The Add Groups option enables you to create and
combine conditions to build more complex rules.
cc.. Select the resource that you want the condition to use.
Clicking a resource opens a menu extension showing additional options that you can select.
Resource Option Description
Direct Attributes This option uses attributes on the root object of the data graph to
determine eligibility.
Related Attributes This option uses attributes on the root object of the data graph to
determine eligibility.
Segments This option uses available segment memberships defined at the
root of the data graph.
Calculated Insights This option uses available calculated insights defined at the root of
the data graph.
Scheduling This option provides date range or day and time selections to
define when personalized content can be made available and
145

=== PAGE 150 ===
Salesforce Personalization Experimentation
Resource Option Description
displayed in response to a personalization request.
Source Enables you to specify a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) for use
as part of a decision request. For example, creating a targeting rule
to return decisions only if individuals access a specific web page or
if a URL contains a specific path or slug (page description) at the
end of the path.
UTM Parameters Enables you to target Urchin Tracking Module (UTM) parameters in
a URL as part of a decision request. UTM parameters are passed
automatically with the URL. For example, you can create a
targeting rule to return decisions only if individuals access a web
page that contains a specific UTM value.
Visit Context Enables you to specify a page type (for example, home page,
product page, category page, and so on) as part of a decision
request. For example, you can create a targeting rule that returns
(or doesn’t return) decisions if individuals are accessing certain
web pages.
dd.. Configure the operator, values, or dates to define the targeting rule condition.
ee.. (Optional) Repeat these steps to add more conditions or groups of conditions.
1100.. Click Next.
1111.. (Optional) Define the experiment’s control cohort by selecting the recommender or content that you
want to test against.
1122.. (Optional) Enable the Defer response to the Personalization Decisions option.
You can bypass configuring a specific recommender for the control cohort. When enabled, this option
enables control cohort traffic to fall through to any configured decisions on the personalization point
for evaluation.
1133.. Define a variation cohort. Variation cohorts are the test subjects of the experiment. Each variation
cohort tests a single variation against the control cohort and against any other configured variation
cohorts.
aa.. Specify the percentage of the total population that you want the variation cohort to contain.
bb.. Select the recommender or content that you want to test as the variation against the control.
cc.. (Optional) Click Add Cohort and repeat this step to define another variation cohort.
1144.. Save your work.
Saved experiments are automatically placed in a Created state. You can then manage the experiment
from the Related tab in the personalization point record.
See Also
Experiment Considerations
Manage an Experiment
View Experiment Analytics
Using Experiment Analytics
146

=== PAGE 151 ===
Salesforce Personalization Experimentation
Manage an Experiment
When you configure and save a personalization experiment and save it, its status is Created. You can
start, stop, archive, edit or delete an experiment at any time from the personalization point Related tab.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To manage an experiment: Personalization Points
Experiments
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Personalization Points.
22.. Locate and open the personalization point that has the experiment that you want to manage.
33.. From the Related tab, locate the row that contains the experiment you want to manage.
44.. From the action menu, select the management option that you want to use.
OPTION DESCRIPTION
Start This option starts the experiment and places it in the Started state.
Once an experiment is started, it can’t be edited. This is meant to
minimize introducing any additional changes during the life of the
test.
Stop This option stops the experiment and places it in the Stopped state.
After stopping an experiment, you can only archive or delete it.
Archive This option archives the experiment. Archiving the experiment
removes it from the experiment section in the personalization point
Related tab. By removing the experiment, you have the option of
running a new experiment on the same personalization point. You
can no longer run an experiment after you archive it. Archiving the
experiment retains all records and data for the experiment. You can
access any data for this experiment, or delete it, from the
Experiment tab, but you can no longer use it on a personalization
point.
Edit This option opens the experiment configuration for editing. If you
haven’t started the experiment yet, you can edit any settings. If you
have already started the experiment, you can’t modify any functional
settings, including the API name.
Delete Deletes the experiment completely, including any underlying
records.
See Also
Experiment Considerations
147

=== PAGE 152 ===
Salesforce Personalization Experimentation
Create an Experiment
View Experiment Analytics
Using Experiment Analytics
Experimentation Example: Recommender Comparison
Experimentation supports various test scenarios. These scenarios can include testing personalized
dynamic content, recommender-based content, or agent-based experiences. This experiment tests a
rule-based recommender against an objective-based recommender to determine which option performs
better.
Experiment Prerequisite Configurations
Before creating the experiment, we created the required components that the experiment uses during
configuration. These components include the two recommenders that the experiment compares, the
response template that defines the format and shape of the personalized content, and the
personalization point that gathers these components together for presentation.
Recommender Comparison Example Configuration
Experiments are created, started, and managed on personalization points. For this experiment
example, configure two cohorts — one as the control and the other as a variation — using the
recommenders that you created and want to test. Each cohort is configured with 50 percent of the
defined test population.
Experiment Prerequisite Configurations
Before creating the experiment, we created the required components that the experiment uses during
configuration. These components include the two recommenders that the experiment compares, the
response template that defines the format and shape of the personalized content, and the
personalization point that gathers these components together for presentation.
Configure the Example Rule-Based Recommender
The rule-based recommender provides recommendations for top-selling products based on total sales
value.
Configure the Example Objective-Based Recommender
The object-based recommender provides Maximize Revenue recommendations based on increased
checkout frequency, increased cart value at checkout, or both.
Configure the Example Content Schema
The content schema (previously called the response template) defines the configuration options
marketers can use to build a personalization decision. The content schema also makes sure that all
personalization point decision responses return data in the same format. For this example, the
personalization point requires a content schema that uses a recommendations personalization type.
Configure the Example Personalization Point
This personalization point is for use on a website cart or checkout page, providing recommendations
to site visitors who have added items to their carts.
148

=== PAGE 153 ===
Salesforce Personalization Experimentation
Configure the Example Rule-Based Recommender
The rule-based recommender provides recommendations for top-selling products based on total sales
value.
11.. Define the recommender properties and click Next.
Parameter Example Setting
Data Space default
Profile Data Graph RealtimeProfile
Item Data Graph Products
Recommender Name Top Selling Products
Recommender API Name Top_Selling_Products
Description Top selling products
22.. Select Rule-Based Recommendations as the recommender type and click Next.
33.. Define the rule-based recommender configuration and click Next.
Parameter Example Setting
Calculated Insight TotalSalesValue
Sort Measure totalsalesvalue
Sort Order Descending
44.. You can ignore filter configuration for this experiment. Define filters to select what items you want the
recommender to display.
Defining filters enables you to select what items you want the recommender to show. In this
experiment, we're testing which recommender method resonates better with site visitors by allowing
the recommenders to provide recommendations for all items.
55.. Save your work.
See Also
Experiment Prerequisite Configurations
Recommender Comparison Example Configuration
149

=== PAGE 154 ===
Salesforce Personalization Experimentation
Configure the Example Objective-Based Recommender
The object-based recommender provides Maximize Revenue recommendations based on increased
checkout frequency, increased cart value at checkout, or both.
11.. Define the recommender properties and click Next.
Parameter Example Setting
Data Space default
Profile Data Graph RealtimeProfile
Item Data Graph Products
Recommender Name Maximize Revenue
Recommender API Name Maximize_Revenue
Description AI-driven recommender
22.. Select Objective-Based Recommendations as the recommender type and click Next.
33.. Select Maximize Revenue as the objective and click Next.
44.. Define filters to select what items you want the recommender to display.
Tab Condition Parameter Example Setting
Include Condition1 Item Data Graph Resource Attributes>Category1
Filter Type Static
Operator Is Equal To
Value Men
55.. Save your work.
See Also
Experiment Prerequisite Configurations
Recommender Comparison Example Configuration
Configure the Example Content Schema
The content schema (previously called the response template) defines the configuration options
150

=== PAGE 155 ===
Salesforce Personalization Experimentation
marketers can use to build a personalization decision. The content schema also makes sure that all
personalization point decision responses return data in the same format. For this example, the
personalization point requires a content schema that uses a recommendations personalization type.
11.. Define the content schema and click Next.
Parameter Example Setting
Data Space default
Personalization Type Recommendations
Content Schema Name Recommendations - Goods Product
Content Schema API Name GoodsProduct
Description ML Driven Recommender
22.. Add a recommendation introduction text attribute that a marketer can populate with content.
Parameter Example Setting
Attribute Label Introduction Text
Attribute API Name Introduction_Text
33.. Select the DMO that the content schema applies to and the fields that you want the decision response
to return.
Parameter Example Setting
Data Model Object ssot_GoodsProduct__dlm
••
Selected DMO Fields Product Name
••
Category1
••
ImageURL
44.. Save your work.
See Also
Experiment Prerequisite Configurations
Recommender Comparison Example Configuration
151

=== PAGE 156 ===
Salesforce Personalization Experimentation
Configure the Example Personalization Point
This personalization point is for use on a website cart or checkout page, providing recommendations to
site visitors who have added items to their carts.
11.. Define the personalization point properties and click Next.
Parameter Example Setting
Data Space default
Profile Data Graph Real-Time>profile
Personalization Point Name Cart Page Recs
Personalization Point API Name Cart_Page_Recs
Description Increase revenue at checkout
Personalization Type Recommendations
Content Schema Recommendations - Goods Product
Maximum Number of 3
Recommendations
Source Personalization App
Authentication Required Unchecked
22.. Save your work.
After creating the cart page recommendation personalization point, you can use it to test personalization
experiences on site pages. For example, you can select a personalization point using Web Personalization
Manager to base a personalization experience on.
See Also
Experiment Prerequisite Configurations
Recommender Comparison Example Configuration
Recommender Comparison Example Configuration
Experiments are created, started, and managed on personalization points. For this experiment example,
configure two cohorts — one as the control and the other as a variation — using the recommenders that
you created and want to test. Each cohort is configured with 50 percent of the defined test population.
152

=== PAGE 157 ===
Salesforce Personalization Experimentation
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Personalization Points.
22.. Locate and open the Cart Page Recs personalization point.
33.. From the Related tab, in the Experiment section, click New.
The New Experiment page opens and shows any inherited personalization point properties that the
experiment uses when generating results.
44.. Enter an experiment name, and an optional description.
The experiment API name is auto-generated.
Parameter Example Setting
Experiment Name Test Recs on Cart
Experiment API Name Test_Recs_on_Cart
Description Test recommendations for different recommender options.
Personalization Point API Name Cart_Page_Recs
Description Increase revenue at checkout
Personalization Type Recommendations
Content Schema Recommendations - Goods Product
Maximum Number of 3
Recommendations
Source Personalization App
Authentication Required Unchecked
55.. Click Next
66.. Select the primary metric that you want this experiment to test against.
This metric determines which variation wins across all cohorts defined for the experiment. For this
experiment, select the [product order] Revenue from the list.
For information about configuring the Product Order engagement signal, see Example: Product Order.
For information about configuring the revenue engagement signal metric for the Product Order
engagement signal, see Example Engagement Signal Metrics.
77.. (Optional) Select any secondary metrics in the Available window and move them to the Selected
window.
Secondary metrics are tested along with the primary metric.
153

=== PAGE 158 ===
Salesforce Personalization Experimentation
88.. Click Next.
99.. Click Nextagain to skip the creation of targeting rules.
Targeting rules let you select only a portion of the population for the experiment, instead of using the
full population. In this experiment, we let the entire population participate, to gather more data.
1100.. Define the experiment’s control cohort.
In this experiment, define the rule-based recommender that you configured as the control cohort and
keep the population value at 50%.
1111.. Specify the introduction text that you want to appear with the recommendations to the control cohort.
In this experiment, we kept the introduction text the same for both experiences.
1122.. Define a second cohort.
In this experiment, define the objective-based recommender that you configured as the variation
cohort and keep the population value at 50%.
1133.. Specify the introduction text that you want to appear with the recommendations to the variation
cohort.
In this experiment, we kept the introduction text the same for both experiences.
1144.. Save your work.
After you save the experiment, it’s automatically placed in a Created state. You can then start the
experiment from the Related tab in the personalization point record. See Manage an Experiment for
details.
See Also
Experiment Prerequisite Configurations
Example Engagement Signals
Example Engagement Signal Metrics
View Experiment Analytics
You can view results for an experiment using the experiment dashboard. You can view analytics for only
active experiments in the Started or Archived state.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To view personalization experiment results: Personalization Points
Experiments
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Experiments.
22.. Locate and open the experiment that you want to view analytics for.
154

=== PAGE 159 ===
Salesforce Personalization Experimentation
The Experiment record opens to the record Analytics tab.
See Also
Using Experiment Analytics
Troubleshooting Experiment Analytics
Experiment Considerations
Create an Experiment
Manage an Experiment
Troubleshooting Experiment Analytics
Use the information in this section to supplement any experiment analytics errors.
Issue Resolution
No data or metrics appear for Make sure to allow enough time for an experiment to provide
the experiment results. Experiments require up to 24 hours from the time they start
to process data and display analytics. If this issue persists, check the
experiment setup. Make sure that any required data lake objects for
experimentation are added and properly mapped for the data
space.
See Also
View Experiment Analytics
Using Experiment Analytics
Using Experiment Analytics
Use the experiment analytics dashboard to control an experiment and view experiment results. The
dashboard provides both summary and detailed results for the measures selected when configuring the
experiment in .Salesforce Personalization
Experiment Status and Controls
The top of the dashboard provides status information for the experiment, along with controls for
stopping, editing, or deleting the experiment.
Experiment Summary
The second section of the experiment dashboard shows the experiment summary metrics. These
metrics provide participant totals for the control cohort and all variant cohorts. When compared
against the control or against other variations (when no control is used), individual activity totals and
lift values for each variant are provided as percent differences.
Primary Metric Results
The third section of the dashboard shows results specific to the primary metric selected for the
experiment. Results for the primary metric determine the experiment's winner.
Secondary Metric Results
155

=== PAGE 160 ===
Salesforce Personalization Experimentation
The last section of the dashboard shows results specific to any secondary metric selected for the
experiment. These results show more information about individual activity related to the experiment,
but don’t directly determine the experiment's winner.
See Also
View Experiment Analytics
Troubleshooting Experiment Analytics
Experiment Status and Controls
The top of the dashboard provides status information for the experiment, along with controls for
stopping, editing, or deleting the experiment.
Important Before returning results, experiments require up to 24 hours from the time the
experiment is started to process data.
See Also
Using Experiment Analytics
Experiment Summary
Primary Metric Results
Secondary Metric Results
Troubleshooting Experiment Analytics
Experiment Summary
The second section of the experiment dashboard shows the experiment summary metrics. These metrics
provide participant totals for the control cohort and all variant cohorts. When compared against the
control or against other variations (when no control is used), individual activity totals and lift values for
each variant are provided as percent differences.
Column Description
Cohorts The names of each experiment cohort.
Personalizer The name of the recommender tested for this cohort. If a recommender
isn’t used for a cohort, the Personalizer table cell is left blank.
Number of Individuals Total number of individuals selected to participate in this cohort.
User-Defined Metric This column name varies depending on the metric defined for the
experiment. For example, this column can report revenue or
recommendation click-through rate.
Lift Percent difference of the tested metric when compared to the control
156

=== PAGE 161 ===
Salesforce Personalization Experimentation
Column Description
or across all variation cohorts.
Chance to Beat Control Probability that a cohort’s content is better than the control, based on
the observed data. Multiple variation cohorts can beat the control. This
column applies only to the primary metric.
Chance to Beat All Probability that a cohort’s content is better than every other content in
the experiment, based on the observed data. Only one variation cohort
can beat all. This column appears only when no control is configured for
the experiment.
See Also
Using Experiment Analytics
Experiment Status and Controls
Primary Metric Results
Secondary Metric Results
Troubleshooting Experiment Analytics
Primary Metric Results
The third section of the dashboard shows results specific to the primary metric selected for the
experiment. Results for the primary metric determine the experiment's winner.
Metric analysis focuses on content and conversion rate, providing totals, lift (difference), and chance-to-
win metrics.
Column Description
Cohorts The names of each experiment cohort.
Personalizer The name of the recommender tested for this cohort. If a
recommender isn’t used for a cohort, the Personalizer table cell is
left blank.
User-Defined Primary Metric This column name varies depending on the primary metric defined
for the experiment. For example, this column can report revenue or
recommendation click-through rate.
Lift Percent difference of the tested metric when compared to the
control or across all variation cohorts.
Credible Interval A credible interval is the probable range in which the true value of a
metric falls, based on the observed data.
Chance to Beat Control Probability that a cohort’s content is better than the control, based
on the observed data. Multiple variation cohorts can beat the
157

=== PAGE 162 ===
Salesforce Personalization Experimentation
Column Description
control.
Chance to Beat All Probability that a cohort’s content is better than every other content
in the experiment, based on the observed data. Only one variation
cohort can beat all.
See Also
Using Experiment Analytics
Experiment Summary
Experiment Status and Controls
Secondary Metric Results
Troubleshooting Experiment Analytics
Secondary Metric Results
The last section of the dashboard shows results specific to any secondary metric selected for the
experiment. These results show more information about individual activity related to the experiment,
but don’t directly determine the experiment's winner.
Metric analysis focuses on content and conversion rate, providing totals, lift (difference), and chance-to-
win metrics. Select individual metric tabs to view results for each secondary metric.
Column Description
Cohorts The names of each experiment cohort.
Personalizer The name of the recommender tested for this cohort. If a
recommender isn’t used for a cohort, the Personalizer table cell is
left blank.
User-Defined Secondary Metrics This column name varies depending on the secondary metrics
selected for the experiment. A column is provided for each
secondary metric you add to the experiment.
Lift Percent difference of the tested metric when compared to the
control or across all variation cohorts. A column for lift is provided
for each metric.
Credible Interval A credible interval is the probable range in which the true value of a
metric falls, based on the observed data.
Chance to beat control Probability that a cohort’s content is better than the control, based
on the observed data. Multiple variation cohorts can beat the
control.
Chance to beat all Probability that a cohort’s content is better than every other content
158

=== PAGE 163 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization Analytics
Column Description
in the experiment, based on the observed data. Only one variation
cohort can beat all.
See Also
Using Experiment Analytics
Experiment Summary
Experiment Status and Controls
Primary Metric Results
Troubleshooting Experiment Analytics
Salesforce Personalization Analytics
Analytics for Salesforce Personalization in Marketing Cloud Next are designed to provide insights into
how your app is running, and the effectiveness of your personalization program. To gain operational
insights, you can use the Personalization pipeline intelligence dashboard. To understand personalization
effectiveness and performance, you can use the attribution dashboard. The attribution dashboard
enables you to visualize preconfigured, ready-to-use attribution configurations available through
personalization setup, or custom attribution configurations that you define. You can also visualize any
personalization analytics DMOs using Tableau or any JDBC-compatible client.
Types of Salesforce Personalization Analytics
The Salesforce Personalization Intelligence app provides two types of analytics — Personalization
pipeline intelligence and Personalization attribution intelligence.
Visualize Personalization Pipeline Intelligence
The Salesforce Personalization Intelligence dashboard provides insights into the health and
performance of your personalization pipeline.
Visualize Personalization Attribution Intelligence
Attribution intelligence leverages engagement data from attribution models to provide deeper insights
into the effectiveness of the personalized output you build with Salesforce Personalization. The
attribution intelligence dashboard and analytics highlight how engagement with specific
personalization points or personalized content relate directly to business goals and important
performance indicators.
Intelligence SQL Queries in Salesforce Personalization
You can view Personalization analytics using any Java database connectivity (JDBC) compatible client
to connect to Data 360 and run queries against the data model objects.
Types of Salesforce Personalization Analytics
The Salesforce Personalization Intelligence app provides two types of analytics — Personalization pipeline
intelligence and Personalization attribution intelligence.
159

=== PAGE 164 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization Analytics
Analytics Type Description
Pipeline Intelligence Pipeline intelligence provides insights derived from
activity associated with the Personalization request
process. Pipeline intelligence analytics give details on how
the Personalization app is performing using technical,
operational performance metrics associated with inbound
and outbound Personalization service requests. These
metrics include the number of decision requests, number
of personalization points, number of personalization
decisions, and number of unique individuals targeted to
highlight pipeline performance and health.
Attribution Intelligence Attribution intelligence provides insights on more
complex metrics, like how visitor engagement with
specific personalization points affect your business. Using
preconfigured or custom attribution models, you can see
where revenue and product orders can be directly
attributed to using a specific personalization point or
other personalized content. By identifying which
personalized experiences contribute most to business
success, you can improve how you provide personalized
content to enhance customer satisfaction and reinforce
business goals.
See Also
Visualize Personalization Pipeline Intelligence
Visualize Personalization Attribution Intelligence
Visualize Personalization Pipeline Intelligence
The Salesforce Personalization Intelligence dashboard provides insights into the health and performance
of your personalization pipeline.
Open a Personalization Pipeline Intelligence Dashboard
View pipeline metrics in a Personalization Pipeline Intelligence dashboard created for a specific data
space. Before opening the dashboard, you must first install it from Salesforce Personalization Setup.
Using the Personalization Pipeline Intelligence Dashboard
Use the Personalization Pipeline Intelligence dashboard to gain insights around the health and usage
of your personalization pipeline.
Open a Personalization Pipeline Intelligence Dashboard
View pipeline metrics in a Personalization Pipeline Intelligence dashboard created for a specific data
space. Before opening the dashboard, you must first install it from Salesforce Personalization Setup.
160

=== PAGE 165 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization Analytics
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To view a Personalization Pipeline Intelligence Personalization Intelligence User
dashboard:
After you install a Personalization Pipeline Intelligence dashboard, you can access it from the
Personalization Intelligence tab in the Personalization app.
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Personalization.
22.. In the Personalization Intelligence tab, select the data space that you want to view pipeline
intelligence for.
The Personalization Pipeline Intelligence dashboard installed for that data space appears.
See Also
Install a Personalization Pipeline Intelligence Dashboard
Customize Permission Sets
Using the Personalization Pipeline Intelligence Dashboard
Using the Personalization Pipeline Intelligence Dashboard
Use the Personalization Pipeline Intelligence dashboard to gain insights around the health and usage of
your personalization pipeline.
Important Using the Personalization Pipeline Intelligence Dashboard requires assignment of the
Personalization Intelligence User license.
The Date Range filter in the upper right-hand corner of the dashboard is global. Modifying this filter
changes the timeframe used to display all dashboard metrics.
Request and Personalization Point Metrics
The top section of the dashboard shows total request and total personalization point metrics. You can
filter Personalization Request or Personalization Point metrics by personalization type or for a specific
personalization point.
Metric Description
Total Personalization Requests The total number of requests serviced by a
personalization point or group of personalization
points.
Total Personalization Points The total number of unique personalization points
serviced over the personalization pipeline.
161

=== PAGE 166 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization Analytics
This section provides a graphical view of personalization request or personalization point metrics based
on your selected date range and filter settings. Clicking Total Personalization Requests or Total
Personalization Points toggles the graph to show data for that metric over the specified date range and
using any selected filter settings.
Daily Uniques Individual Metrics
The middle section of the dashboard shows daily unique individual metrics. These are individuals whose
activity has resulted in personalization service.
Metric Description
Avg. Number of Unique Individuals / Day The total number of unique personalization points
serviced over the personalization pipeline.
This section provides a graphical view of daily unique individuals for the specified date range.
All Data Table
The bottom of the dashboard provides metrics in a table based on the specified date range and using
any selected filter settings.
Metric Description
Personalization Point The name assigned to the personalization point when
it was created.
Personalization Point ID An auto-generated ID assigned to the personalization
point when it was created.
Personalization Decision The name assigned to the personalization point when
it was created.
Personalization Decision ID An auto-generated ID assigned to the personalization
decision when it was created.
Personalization Requests The total number of personalization requests serviced
by the personalization point within the selected
timeframe.
See Also
Install a Personalization Pipeline Intelligence Dashboard
Customize Permission Sets
Open a Personalization Pipeline Intelligence Dashboard
162

=== PAGE 167 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization Analytics
Visualize Personalization Attribution Intelligence
Attribution intelligence leverages engagement data from attribution models to provide deeper insights
into the effectiveness of the personalized output you build with Salesforce Personalization. The
attribution intelligence dashboard and analytics highlight how engagement with specific personalization
points or personalized content relate directly to business goals and important performance indicators.
Predefined Attribution Configurations
Using Salesforce Personalization setup, you can install two predefined attribution configurations. After
these configurations are deployed, you can view the attribution data for them from the Attributions
tab.
Create a Custom Attribution Configuration
Instead of using the predefined attribution configurations, you can create your own custom attribution
configurations using first-or last-touch models to better meet your needs. These custom configurations
can help you evaluate how well your personalization decisions or strategies are working. By defining
your own engagement signals and metrics, you can configure a two- to four-stage funnel stage
configuration to track customer journeys from initial impression to conversion.
Enable a Draft Attribution Configuration
There are many reasons to make a draft of an attribution configuration. You can let people check the
configuration before enabling it. You can also create different attribution configurations to get
different attribution data, and turn those configurations on at different times or under different
conditions. You can enable a draft attribution configuration at any time.
Disable or Delete an Attribution Configuration
You can disable or delete an attribution configuration at any time.
View Attribution Intelligence for Active Attribution Configurations
You can view analytics for active attribution configurations using the attribution intelligence
dashboard. Attribution intelligence provides analytics for all personalization points and all associated
content.
Using the Personalization Attribution Intelligence Dashboard
Use Attribution Intelligence dashboards in Salesforce Personalization to view funnel stage conversions
related to a specific attribution model and analytic totals for each stage.
View Attribution Intelligence Using Tableau
You can use Tableau to view and analyze attribution metrics for predefined attribution DMOs. By
connecting data model objects using the built-in Salesforce Data Cloud Connector in Tableau, you can
analyze your attribution data in near real time.
Predefined Attribution Configurations
Using Salesforce Personalization setup, you can install two predefined attribution configurations. After
these configurations are deployed, you can view the attribution data for them from the Attributions tab.
The predefined attribution configurations use attribution parameter settings for a specific group of key
performance indicators (KPIs) – Views, Clicks, Add to carts, and Orders.
163

=== PAGE 168 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization Analytics
For this out-of-the-box attribution configuration to work, you must install a specific set of required
engagement objects – Product Browse Engagement, Shopping Cart Engagement, and Product Order
Engagement. If you don’t plan to use these objects, this predefined attribution setup is optional.
We’ve outlined the predefined attribution settings here, along with the included key performance
indicators (KPIs).
Parameter setting Description
Attribution Model Type First Touch
When using this model type, multiple
qualifying engagements for a desired
business conversion are resolved by
assigning the first engagement 100% of
the value.
As an example, if an individual purchases a
product that was recommended three
different times within the attribution
window, the first engagement (view or
impression) receives 100% of the value
for that purchase.
Last Touch
When using this model type, multiple
qualifying engagements for a desired
business conversion are resolved by
assigning the last engagement 100% of
the value.
As an example, if an individual purchases a
product that was recommended three
different times within the attribution
window, the last engagement (view or
impression) receives 100% of the value
for that purchase.
Attribution Window 7 days The attribution window is the maximum
allowed time between two engagements
for a conversion to occur. For example, if
an individual engages with recommended
content, revenue from them ordering that
content within the 7 day engagement
window is counted for that personalization
point. Any revenue for orders outside of
the engagement window isn't counted.
164

=== PAGE 169 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization Analytics
Attribution KPIs Value Description
Engagement Impressions Attribution-eligible metrics, like cart
conversions, orders, and revenue, are
attributed to viewing personalized
content. Revenue is considered attributed
if the individual has seen the content.
Direct engagement with the content isn't
required.
Clicks Attribution-eligible metrics, like cart
additions, orders, and revenue, are
attributed to clicking on personalized
content.
Business Metrics Add to Carts The total number of add to cart actions for
the recommended content that was
purchased within the attribution window.
Orders The number of discrete orders containing
recommended content that were
purchased within the attribution window.
Revenue The total amount of revenue for orders
containing recommended content that
was purchased within the attribution
window.
See Also
Types of Salesforce Personalization Analytics
Deploy Preconfigured Personalization Attribution Intelligence Data
View Attribution Intelligence for Active Attribution Configurations
Using the Personalization Attribution Intelligence Dashboard
Salesforce Personalization Data Model Objects
Create a Custom Attribution Configuration
Instead of using the predefined attribution configurations, you can create your own custom attribution
configurations using first-or last-touch models to better meet your needs. These custom configurations
can help you evaluate how well your personalization decisions or strategies are working. By defining your
own engagement signals and metrics, you can configure a two- to four-stage funnel stage configuration
to track customer journeys from initial impression to conversion.
165

=== PAGE 170 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization Analytics
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To configure a custom attribution configuration: Personalization Intelligence User
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Attributions.
22.. Click New.
33.. Select the data space where you want to create and use the attribution model.
44.. Select the identity resolution ruleset that you want to use for the attribution model.
For data model objects that don’t require the use of an identity resolution ruleset, like the Individual
object, you can choose the No IR Ruleset option.
55.. Specify a name for the attribution model.
66.. Click Next.
77.. Define the parameters that you want to use for this attribution configuration.
aa.. Select either a First Touch or Last Touch attribution model type.
Option Description
First Touch Multiple qualifying engagements for a desired
business conversion are resolved by assigning
the first engagement 100% of the value. For
example, if an individual purchases a product
that was recommended three different times
within the attribution window, the first
engagement (view or impression) receives
100% of the value for that purchase.
Last Touch Multiple qualifying engagements for a desired
business conversion are resolved by assigning
the last engagement 100% of the value. For
example, if an individual purchases a product
that was recommended three different times
within the attribution window, the last
engagement (view or impression) receives
100% of the value for that purchase.
bb.. Select an attribution window to use for this model.
88.. Click Next.
99.. Define at least 2 funnel stages that map an individual’s personalization journey. You can define up to 4
stages.
aa.. Select an engagement signal to use for the funnel stage. An engagement signal defines an
engagement action that an individual can take during the personalization journey. For more
information about engagement signals, see Engagement Signals and Engagement Signal Metrics.
For an engagement signal to be eligible for use in a funnel stage, it must have an active relationship
166

=== PAGE 171 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization Analytics
with the Personalization Log DMO.
bb.. For Stages 2 through 4, select whether you want to enable Content Match. Content matching links
item attribution from one funnel stage to the previous stage. For example, if you enable content
matching for an add-to-cart stage, attribution occurs only if the item added to the cart is the same
item engaged with in the previous stage. If content matching is disabled for the add-to-cart stage,
attribution occurs if any item is added to the cart, even if the item wasn’t engaged with before.
cc.. Move any metrics that you want to report on from the Available Metrics pane to the Selected
Metrics pane.
1100.. To save a draft of the new attribution configuration without enabling it, click Save Draft. You can
enable a draft attribution model at any time.
1111.. To save and enable the new attribution model, click Save & Enable.
1122.. Create the Personalization Point output data model objects (DMOs) that you want to use when
gathering attribution data. The attribution model uses two separate data model objects when
gathering data. When creating these DMOs, make sure to name them differently.
Data Model Object Description
Personalization Point Output DMO This DMO gathers personalisation point-specific
attribution data.
Personalization Point Content Output DMO This DMO gathers content-specific attribution
data.
See Also
Types of Salesforce Personalization Analytics
Deploy Preconfigured Personalization Attribution Intelligence Data
View Attribution Intelligence for Active Attribution Configurations
Using the Personalization Attribution Intelligence Dashboard
Salesforce Personalization Data Model Objects
Enable a Draft Attribution Configuration
There are many reasons to make a draft of an attribution configuration. You can let people check the
configuration before enabling it. You can also create different attribution configurations to get different
attribution data, and turn those configurations on at different times or under different conditions. You
can enable a draft attribution configuration at any time.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To enable a draft attribution configuration: Personalization Intelligence User
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Attributions.
22.. Locate and open the draft attribution model that you want to enable.
33.. Click Enable.
167

=== PAGE 172 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization Analytics
44.. Create the Personalization Point output data model objects (DMOs) that you want to use when
gathering attribution data. The attribution model uses two separate data model objects when
gathering data. When creating these DMOs, make sure to name them differently.
Data Model Object Description
Personalization Point Output DMO This DMO gathers personalisation point-specific
attribution data.
Personalization Point Content Output DMO This DMO gathers content-specific attribution
data.
55.. Click Enable.
See Also
Visualize Personalization Attribution Intelligence
Types of Salesforce Personalization Analytics
View Attribution Intelligence for Active Attribution Configurations
Using the Personalization Attribution Intelligence Dashboard
Disable or Delete an Attribution Configuration
Disable or Delete an Attribution Configuration
You can disable or delete an attribution configuration at any time.
When disabling or deleting an attribution configuration, keep these considerations in mind:
•
Enabled attribution configurations show a status of Active.
•
Disabled attribution configurations show a status of Inactive.
•
Deleting a predefined attribution configuration removes the model from the Attributions tab.
However, the objects created when the model was initially deployed aren’t deleted, and any gathered
data is maintained.
•
To recover a predefined attribution configuration that you deleted, you must redeploy attribution
intelligence using the Salesforce Personalization attribution intelligence setup process. Redeploying
attribution intelligence recreates the predefined attribution configurations. However, it doesn’t
overwrite or delete any data previously gathered and stored by their data lake or data model objects.
To disable or delete an attribution configuration:
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Attributions.
22.. Locate the attribution configuration that you want to disable or delete.
33.. From the menu, click Disable to disable the model, or Delete to delete it.
See Also
Create a Custom Attribution Configuration
Install a Personalization Pipeline Intelligence Dashboard
168

=== PAGE 173 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization Analytics
View Attribution Intelligence for Active Attribution Configurations
You can view analytics for active attribution configurations using the attribution intelligence dashboard.
Attribution intelligence provides analytics for all personalization points and all associated content.
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Attributions.
22.. Locate and open the active attribution model that you want to view attribution intelligence for.
33.. Click the Analytics tab.
See Also
Visualize Personalization Attribution Intelligence
Using the Personalization Attribution Intelligence Dashboard
Using the Personalization Attribution Intelligence Dashboard
Use Attribution Intelligence dashboards in Salesforce Personalization to view funnel stage conversions
related to a specific attribution model and analytic totals for each stage.
Global Filters
The filters for Personalization Point, Recommender, and timeframe selection in the first section of the
Analytics tab are global. Modifying any of these values affects the display of all dashboard metrics.
Funnel Stage Conversion
The second section of the attribution dashboard shows funnel stage conversion metrics. The stages
shown for the conversion funnel reflect the engagement signals (stages) configured for the specific
attribution model selected. The values display total stage counts and conversion rates from one stage to
the next.
When interpreting funnel stage conversion results, keep these considerations in mind:
•
Each attribution model can have different stages and different numbers of stages. For these reasons,
the labels for the Funnel Stage Conversion section can be different for each attribution model.
•
Funnel conversion always progresses from left (the entrance) to right (the exit).
•
The entrance to the funnel always shows the total number of individuals who have started the
conversion journey. As individuals progress through the funnel, the total number of individuals
typically decreases at each juncture, showing the total number of conversions at each stage.
•
The conversion rate for a stage appears as a percentage as compared to the previous stage. For
predefined configurations, Views shows total individuals, Clicks shows percent conversion of clicks/
views, Carts shows percentage conversion of carts/clicks, and Orders shows percentage conversion of
orders/carts.
169

=== PAGE 174 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization Analytics
Attribution Tables
The tables in the third and fourth sections of the dashboard show attributions by decision and by
content, respectively.
The Attribution by Decision table always includes the Personalization Point, Decision, and Recommender
columns by default.
The Attribution by Content table always includes the Personalization Point, Decision, Recommender, and
Content ID columns by default.
All other columns in each table reflect the engagement signals (stages) configured for the specific
attribution model selected.
See Also
Visualize Personalization Attribution Intelligence
View Attribution Intelligence for Active Attribution Configurations
View Attribution Intelligence Using Tableau
You can use Tableau to view and analyze attribution metrics for predefined attribution DMOs. By
connecting data model objects using the built-in Salesforce Data Cloud Connector in Tableau, you can
analyze your attribution data in near real time.
For more information, see Unlock Hidden Insights with Tableau.
Intelligence SQL Queries in Salesforce Personalization
You can view Personalization analytics using any Java database connectivity (JDBC) compatible client to
connect to Data 360 and run queries against the data model objects.
Pipeline Intelligence SQL Query Examples
Use these SQL query examples to derive insights and visibility into the Salesforce Personalization
pipeline, its metrics, and performance.
Query Personalization Attribution by Personalization Point
This query shows attribution by personalization point over a specified date range. It includes the
number of unique profiles, total number of clicks and attributed orders, and attributed revenue by
date.
170

=== PAGE 175 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization Analytics
Pipeline Intelligence SQL Query Examples
Use these SQL query examples to derive insights and visibility into the Salesforce Personalization
pipeline, its metrics, and performance.
Get Information About Personalization Pipeline Requests
This query retrieves who made the request and when, the response time, and which content was
returned.
Aggregate the Requests Served to Individuals per Day
This query gets the number of requests served and how many individuals received those requests on a
daily basis.
View Personalization Pipeline Metrics by Date
This query shows various pipeline metrics grouped by date, personalization point, and personalization
decision over the selected date range.
Get Information About Personalization Pipeline Requests
This query retrieves who made the request and when, the response time, and which content was
returned.
SELECT
substr(to_iso8601(RequestDateTime__c),1,19) as DateTime,
PersonalizationRequestId__c as PersonalizationRequestId,
IndividualId__c as IndividualId,
PersonalizationPointId__c as PersonalizationPoint,
ResponseTimeMillisecond__c as ResponseTime,
TargetObjectLabelText__c as TargetObjectLabel,
TargetObjectRecordId__c as TargetObjectRecordId
FROM
PersonalizationLog__dlm
WHERE
PersonalizationRequestId__c ='fcf77347-44c2-4e84-952f-10391a5a9df9'
Aggregate the Requests Served to Individuals per Day
This query gets the number of requests served and how many individuals received those requests on a
daily basis.
SELECT
DATE_TRUNC('day',RequestDateTime__c) as Day,
COUNT(DISTINCT PersonalizationRequestId__c) as NumRequests,
COUNT(DISTINCT IndividualId__c) as UniqueIndividuals
171

=== PAGE 176 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization Analytics
FROM
PersonalizationLog__dlm
GROUP BY
1
ORDER BY
1
View Personalization Pipeline Metrics by Date
This query shows various pipeline metrics grouped by date, personalization point, and personalization
decision over the selected date range.
The displayed metrics include:
•
Number of personalization requests
•
Number of unique individuals
•
Total response time
•
Number of contents returned within a personalized response
•
Number of personalized responses provided to each individual
SELECT
CAST(PersonalizationLog__dlm.RequestStartDateTime__c AS DATE) as RequestDate,P
ersonalizationPoint__dlm.Name__c as PersonalizationPoint,
PersonalizationDecision__dlm.Name__c as PersonalizationDecision,
approx_distinct(PersonalizationLog__dlm.PersonalizationId__c) as NumRequests,a
pprox_distinct(PersonalizationLog__dlm.IndividualId__c) as UniqueIndividuals,
SUM(PersonalizationLog__dlm.ResponseTimeMillis__c/COALESCE(NULLIF(Personalizat
ionLog__dlm.NumContentItems__c,0),1)) as TotalResponseTime,
SUM(PersonalizationLog__dlm.NumContentItems__c/COALESCE(NULLIF(Personalization
Log__dlm.NumContentItems__c,0),1)) as NumContentItems
FROM PersonalizationLog__dlm
LEFT JOIN PersonalizationPoint__dlm
ON(PersonalizationLog__dlm.PersonalizationPointId__c =
PersonalizationPoint__dlm.Id__c)
LEFT JOIN PersonalizationDecision__dlm
ON(PersonalizationLog__dlm.PersonalizationDecisionId__c =
PersonalizationDecision__dlm.Id__c)
GROUP BY 1,2,3
ORDER BY 1 DESC
172

=== PAGE 177 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
Query Personalization Attribution by Personalization Point
This query shows attribution by personalization point over a specified date range. It includes the number
of unique profiles, total number of clicks and attributed orders, and attributed revenue by date.
SELECT
AttributionDate__c,
PersonalizationDecision__c,
PersonalizationPoint__c,
Personalizer__c,
SUM(PersonalizationRequestCount__c) as personalization_requests,
SUM (UniqueProfileCount__c) as unique_individuals,
SUM (AttributedViewsCount__c) as views,
SUM (AttributedClicksCount__c) as clicks,
SUM (AttributedCartsCount__c) as carts,
SUM (AttributedOrdersCount__c) as orders,
SUM(AttributedOrdersCount__c) / NULLIF(SUM(AttributedViewsCount__c), 0)*100 as
orderConversionRate,
SUM (AttributedRevenue__c) as revenue
FROM scm_PersonalizationPointViewAttribution__dlm
WHERE AttributionDate__c >= date('2024-01-01') AND AttributionDate__c <= dat
e('2024-04-01')
GROUP BY 1,2,3,4
ORDER BY AttributionDate__c ASC;
Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
Learn how Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization in Marketing Cloud Next creates and delivers
personalized recommendations, content, and how it can provide essential contextual data for other
agents.
Agentforce Adaptive Websites
Agentforce Adaptive Websites transform static web pages into intelligent, personalized customer
experiences. By combining real-time user behavior signals from Data 360 with Agentforce conversational
AI, your website dynamically adjusts content, recommendations, images, and messaging based on
individual customer preferences and behaviors.
When customers visit your website, they receive personalized product recommendations and contextual
assistance through natural conversation. The AI agent understands customer preferences, purchase
history, and current interests, enabling a high-touch experience that guides customers to relevant
content without browsing static catalogs.
173

=== PAGE 178 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
This system creates a bridge between three primary technologies:
•
Salesforce Data 360 For unified data and profiles.
•
Agentforce For intelligent reasoning and conversation.
•
Your website For the visual, customer-facing experience.
Key Benefits
Customers often leave websites when they can't find information or answers quickly. Adaptive Websites
reduces this friction by delivering:
•
Increased conversions - Show relevant content, offers, and calls to action (CTAs) for specific visitors to
reduce decision paralysis and drive sales.
•
Reduced bounce rates - Engage visitors immediately with personalized browsing experiences that
prevent them from leaving to search for answers elsewhere.
•
Immersive, one-to-one experiences - Provide a unique experience tailored to the visitor's unified
customer profile. Make digital interactions feel as personal as in-store assistance.
•
Continuous learning - Learn from every interaction. The system sends behavioral data to Data 360 to
improve future personalization.
How It Works
The Adaptive Web Agent Component (AWAC) bridges Data 360, Agentforce AI, and your website. When
customers interact with the agent, Einstein Prompt Templates and Retrievers query Data 360 and return
structured responses. These responses include both conversational replies and curated product data
from your catalog.
The component consists of these elements:
•
Initialization: This component serves as the entry point for the user journey, launching the full
adaptive web experience. It typically takes the form of a search bar or a traditional chat bubble.
•
Chat Window: Shows the agent's conversational response and optional quick-action buttons.
•
Content Zone: Renders personalized content by using configurable templates.
See Also
Set Up Agentforce Adaptive Websites
Set Up Agentforce Adaptive Websites
Building an adaptive website involves orchestrating five key layers of technology: data, AI, conversation,
web integration, and behavioral tracking. The process moves from establishing a data foundation to
deploying client-side components that render the experience.
These phases guide you through the complete setup process for Agentforce Adaptive Websites.
•
Phase I: Data Foundation
174

=== PAGE 179 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
- What's involved: Ingest business data, such as product catalogs and customer profiles, into Data
360 DMOs. Create Data 360 search indexes for fast information retrieval. Set up retrievers to fetch
real-time data via Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG). Configure prompt templates in Agent
Builder to format AI responses into structured JSON that your website can read.
- Outcome: A single source of truth (SSOT) that acts as the backbone for all downstream AI
capabilities.
step Goal
Prepare Data for Your Agent Consolidate business data into Data 360 DMOs.
Configure an Einstein Retriever Connect search indexes to prompt templates.
Leverage Data Graphs for Build unified customer profiles for personalization.
Context-Aware AI Agents
•
Phase II: AI Intelligence
- What's involved: Establish the agent's core intelligence by creating a new agent and assigning
actions linked to prompt templates. Configure the response structure to return JSON data that the
web component renders as personalized content.
- Outcome: An intelligent agent capable of understanding natural language and generating data-
driven, structured responses.
Step Goal
Create an Agent Configure an agent to deploy intelligent conversational AI directly
to your customers.
Create an Agent Action Add prompt templates as agent capabilities.
•
Phase III: Conversation Infrastructure
- What's involved: Deploy Enhanced Chat. Configure the Enhanced Chat REST API. Set up context
variables to pass user IDs from the website to the agent.
- Outcome: A secure channel where the agent can receive user queries and context.
Step Goal
Create an Enhanced Chat Enable agent conversations on external websites.
Deployment
•
Phase IV: Web Integration
- What's involved: Implement the Adaptive Web Agent Component (AWAC) on your site. Create
custom React templates to render the JSON responses. For example, render a list of products as a
visual carousel rather than text.
- Outcome: Agent responses appear as native, integrated web elements, such as product grids or
dynamic banners, rather than just chat text.
175

=== PAGE 180 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
Step Goal
Set Up the Adaptive Web Agent Add the AWAC library to your website.
Component
•
Phase V: Behavioral Intelligence
- What's involved: Configure the Data 360 web connector to capture real-time signals. Build real-time
data graphs to aggregate behavior. For example, "User viewed hiking boots."
- Outcome: Live behavioral data flows back into the customer profile, which allows the agent to
become smarter and more personalized with every click.
Step Goal
Configure a Data 360 Web Track real-time customer behavior.
Connector
Set Up Agent Engagement Capture agent interaction events in Data 360.
Tracking
See Also
Agentforce Adaptive Websites
Prepare Data for Your Agent
Establish the single source of truth for agent-powered experiences by consolidating business-critical data
into Salesforce Data 360 DMOs or data libraries. Data 360 transforms disparate information from
multiple source systems into standardized, enriched data models with consistent field mappings,
hierarchical relationships, and real-time sync. This consolidated repository eliminates data silos and
provides the structured foundation needed for AI-powered experiences.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To set up a web or mobile app connection: Data Cloud Architect
To create a search index configuration: Data Cloud Architect
Before you begin,
•
Enable Data 360 in your Salesforce org.
•
Identify the DMOs or data libraries that align with your agent's purpose (for example, customer
profiles, product catalogs, or knowledge articles).
11.. Use a connector to ingest data from your website into Data 360.
See Connect a Website or Mobile App to Data 360.
176

=== PAGE 181 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
22.. Create a search index.
Search indexes enable Agentforce agents to perform fast, intelligent retrieval of unified data from
DMOs.
See Create a Search Index Configuration with Easy Setup.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Web and Mobile App Connector
Configure an Einstein Retriever and Reference it in a Prompt Template
Create an Einstein Retriever to fetch relevant DMO data based on conversation context and inject it into
prompt templates.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To manage retrievers or versions in Einstein Studio Data Cloud Architect
(create, edit, and delete):
To create and manage prompt templates in
Prompt Template Manager permission set
Prompt Builder:
•
Manage Prompt Templates
•
Execute Prompt Templates
To create and manage Agentforce Service agents: Manage Agentforce Service Agents permission set
AND Manage AI Agents
Einstein Retrievers implement Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), acting as semantic search engines
that query Data 360 indexes. When an Agentforce interaction occurs, the retriever searches indexed
DMO data using the customer's intent, then dynamically injects results into prompt templates as
contextual variables. Prompt templates then use this retrieved data to generate personalized, context-
aware responses that combine LLM reasoning with your real-time business information.
11.. Configure a retriever based on your created search index and Data Model Objects (DMOs)
See Create an Individual Retriever.
22.. Create a prompt template.
See Create a Flex Prompt Template.
Field action
Template Type Select Flex.
177

=== PAGE 182 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
Field action
Template Name Add a descriptive name (for example,
NTO_OutdoorGearFinder ).
Description Add a description (for example, Outputs JSON of suggested
products based on user input) .
Resources Add your retriever.
33.. Write the prompt template text with these sections:
••
Role - Define the agent's persona and purpose.
••
Context - Describe your product categories and data structure.
••
Format and Guardrails - Specify response rules (JSON only, no invented data).
••
Instructions - Define the process for handling user queries.
••
Data Source - Reference your Einstein Retriever with the syntax
{!$EinsteinSearch:Your_Retriever_Name.results}
••
Output Instructions - Map DMO fields to JSON output structure.
••
Example - Provide sample input and expected JSON output.
44.. Create an agent action with the prompt template.
See Create a Custom Agent Action in the Legacy Builder.
Field action
Reference Action Type Select Prompt Template
Action Name Add a name (for example,
NTO_OutdoorGearRecommendations ).
Description Add a description (for example, Provides personalized
outdoor gear recommendations using the product
catalog ).
Template Selection Select the your prompt template (in this example,
NTO_OutdoorGearFinder ).
For the expected JSON schema and formatting requirements for the Adaptive Web Agent Component
(AWAC), see Response Structure.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Retrieve Data
Salesforce Help: Best Practices for Building Prompt Templates
Example Prompt Template
Here’s an example prompt template that instructs the agent to act as an outdoor gear advisor and
generate personalized Northern Trail Outfitters recommendations in JSON format.
178

=== PAGE 183 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
##YOUR ROLE:
You are an outdoor gear advisor for Northern Trail Outfitters, a premier outdo
or equipment and apparel retailer. Your job is to find the appropriate PRODUCT
RECOMMENDATIONS from the Northern Trail Outfitters Product Catalog based on th
e Query Intent of a customer asking for guidance to choose or discover outdoor
gear. Your very final job is to produce an output in JSON format.
##CONTEXT
Take into account Northern Trail Outfitters products are categorized by GENDE
R, PRODUCT TYPE, and ACTIVITY. The main categories include:
Gender: Men, Women, Unisex Product Types: Shoes, Jackets, Tops, Bottoms, Acces
sories Activity Categories: Hiking, Trail Running, Boots, Rainwear, Hoodies &
Sweatshirts, Sandals, Radical Series
##FORMAT, TONE AND GUARDRAILS OF YOUR ANSWERS:
You must not invent any information. If you do not know or don't find the info
rmation, clearly state it. You must search only in the data sources provided b
elow. You must output a JSON, nothing else.
##WHAT YOU HAVE TO DO:
Steps you will follow:
You must only produce an output of a JSON structure. Determine the query inten
t of this customer input "{!$Input:Input}".
Then use the Customer's Query Intent to Search appropriate products in the Nor
thern Trail Outfitters Product Catalog and provide the 4 best product recommen
dations based on your Reasoning.
When returning the product recommendations always return the "Raw JSON Data" f
rom each product in your response.
For the JSON Section put all individual products in an Array (See Example Outp
ut). In addition to returning the JSON section, return a summary of the data y
ou provided in JSON without mentioning the word catalog.
##DATA SOURCE WHERE YOU HAVE TO SEARCH: Here is the Northern Trail Outfitters
Product Catalog you have to search in to make your product suggestions, and ex
tract data from: {!$EinsteinSearch:NTO_GoodsProduct_Retriever.results}
179

=== PAGE 184 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
##OUTPUT INSTRUCTIONS: From your findings above, you must strictly return only
a valid JSON object matching this structure with no markdown, no backticks, no
explanation.
The JSON structure must include:
"text": summary of your findings
"curation": object containing "bannerImage" (optional) and "products" array
"options": array of quick-action buttons
"template": array with template name "Recs"
For each product in the "products" array, map these fields:
"id" = "ProductSKU" field from the catalog
"image" = "ImageURL" field from the catalog
"name" = "Name" field from the catalog
"price" = "UnitPrice" field formatted as "$X.00" (e.g., "$140.00")
"rating" = assign a rating between 4.0 and 5.0 based on product quality
Also add an options array with:
"name": "Men"
"name": "Women"
##EXAMPLE:
Example Input: I'm looking for some ideas on hiking boots for women.
Example output only in JSON:
---JSON BEGIN---
{ "text": "Here are some excellent women's hiking boots from Northern Trail Ou
tfitters that offer durability and comfort for your outdoor adventures", "cura
tion": { "bannerImage": "https://edge.disstg.commercecloud.salesforce.com/dw/i
mage/v2/ZZPQ_010/on/demandware.static/-/Library-Sites-NTO-SiteSharedLibrary/de
fault/dw48e6452f/images/stories/stories-hero-05-1800-600.jpg", "products": [ {
"id": "2050942", "image": "https://s3.amazonaws.com/northerntrailoutfitters.co
m/nto-apparel/default/images/large/2050942APE-0.jpg", "name": "RidgeWalker Pro
Shoes", "price": "$140.00", "rating": 4.5 }, { "id": "2050934", "image": "http
s://s3.amazonaws.com/northerntrailoutfitters.com/nto-apparel/default/images/la
rge/2050934AOC-0.jpg", "name": "Women's Flight Trinity Running Shoes", "pric
e": "$140.00", "rating": 4.3 }, { "id": "2050075", "image": "https://s3.amazon
180

=== PAGE 185 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
aws.com/northerntrailoutfitters.com/nto-apparel/default/images/large/2050075AI
X-0.jpg", "name": "Women's Renew Boot", "price": "$130.00", "rating": 4.7 } ]
}, "options": [ { "name": "Men" }, { "name": "Women" } ], "template": [ { "nam
e": "Recs" } ] }
---JSON END---
Now, you must create only the JSON and nothing else, without mentioning ---JSO
N BEGIN--- and ---JSON END---. If the output is not a JSON, then the output is
incorrect and you must try again to output a JSON.
Response Structure for Adaptive Web Agent Component
Configure prompt templates to return a structured JSON response that renders rich content in the
Adaptive Web Agent Component (AWAC).
Include these fields in the response payload to define the message text, personalization data, and visual
templates.
Field Type Purpose
text string Message displayed in the chat window.
curation array Personalization data for the content zone.
template array Template name(s) for rendering content.
options array Quick-action buttons in the chat window.
Example - Full Response
Use the complete response structure to trigger personalization recommendations and define the output
format directly.
{
"text": "Here are some boots for you",
"curation": [
{
"personalizations": [
{
"personalizationPointName": "Generic_Boots_Recs",
"data": [
{
"ssot__Name__c": "NTO Chukka",
181

=== PAGE 186 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
"UnitPrice__c": "160.0",
"ImageURL__c": "https://example.com/image.jpg"
}
],
"attributes": {
"IntroductionText": "Recommended For You"
}
}
]
}
],
"template": [
{
"name": "ProductRecommendations"
}
],
"options": [
{ "name": "Show me hiking gear" },
{ "name": "What about jackets?" }
]
}
Example - Minimal Response
Return a minimal structure containing only the personalization point name for lightweight responses.
The client-side template then retrieves the detailed data.
{
"text": "Here are some boot recommendations",
"curation": [
{
"personalizations": [
{
"personalizationPointName": "Generic_Boots_Recs"
}
]
}
],
"template": [
{
"name": "ProductRecommendations"
}
]
182

=== PAGE 187 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
}
See Also
Set Up the Adaptive Web Agent Component
Leverage Data Graphs for Context-Aware AI Agents
Data graphs bridge the gap between raw data and AI agents. By aggregating disconnected engagement
data such as browsing history, cart activity, and past conversations into a single structure, data graphs
provide agents with the real-time context needed to personalize interactions.
To know more about real-time data graphs, see Data Graphs and Grounding with Data Graphs.
Integration Process
The data graph acts as a real-time context engine to capture context, query data, and enrich the profile.
11.. The Web Connector SDK captures the user session and passes the IndividualId to the agent.
22.. The agent uses the IndividualId to query the data graph in real time.
33.. The data graph returns a structured behavioral profile to the agent's context variables.
Implementation Example: Northern Trail Outfitters (NTO)
Scenario:
On NTO's site, a user opens the chat and enters "I need hiking boots for an upcoming trip." Without a
data graph, the agent could provide only a generic list of hiking boots. Because NTO set up a data graph
based on previous views, chats, and cart engagement, the agent knows that this customer recently did
XYZ. The agent replies,
Based on your interest in the Women's RidgeWalker Pro and the trail running
shoes in your cart, I'd recommend the Women's FrostStep Thermal Boot (SKU:
9988776) for $130. It offers the same protection you were looking for, plus
insulation for cold trail conditions.
Data Graph Structure and Output
Review the data graph's hierarchical structure and the JSON output that provides real-time context to the
agent.
Structure:
The data graph organizes engagement data hierarchically under the Individual entity.
183

=== PAGE 188 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
Individual
├── CatalogEngagement
├── CartEngagement
└── AgentEngagement
JSON Output: This payload represents the data returned to the agent.
{
"ssot__Id__c": "abc123",
"CatalogEngagement__dlm": [
{
"catalog_id__c": "PROD001",
"catalog_interactionName__c": "ViewCatalogObject",
"eventType__c": "product-view"
}
],
"AgentEngagement__dlm": [
{
"agentEngagement_conversationId__c": "CONV001",
"eventType__c": "agentEngagement",
"ssot__ConversationEntry__dlm": [
{
"ssot__PayloadText__c": "I'm interested in Sales Cloud pricing"
}
]
}
]
}
See Also
Salesforce Help: Build and Manage Data Graphs
Create an Agent
Create the foundational Agentforce Service Agent that serves as your customer-facing representative.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To build and manage Service Agents: Manage Agentforce Service Agents AND Manage
AI Agents
To create a custom topic:
184

=== PAGE 189 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
OR
Customize Application
11.. Create an Agentforce Service Agent.
See Create an Agent from an Agentforce Service Agent Template.
For this example, use these values to configure the Northern Trail Outfitters agent. Customize these
values based on your use case.
Field Value
Label Northern Trail Outfitters Agent
API Name Northern_Trail_Outfitters_Agent
Description This is the Northern Trail Outfitters Agent that helps customers
discover and purchase outdoor gear, providing expert
recommendations for hiking, trail running, and outdoor
adventures.
Role The agent's job is to assist customers in discovering the right
outdoor gear for their adventures, providing personalized product
recommendations, answering questions about equipment
specifications, and guiding customers through their outdoor gear
selection process.
Company Northern Trail Outfitters is a premier outdoor equipment and
apparel retailer specializing in hiking gear, trail running
equipment, outdoor clothing, and adventure accessories for
outdoor enthusiasts.
Agent User New Agent User
Keep a record of conversations Select
with enhanced event logs to
review agent behavior
22.. Assign the agent's permission set to users.
aa.. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Permission Sets, and then click Permission Sets.
bb.. Select the agent’s permission set (for example, here Northern Trail Outfitters Agent
Permissions ). The permission set is created automatically.
cc.. Click Manage Assignments and then Add Assignments.
dd.. Select the checkboxes next to EinsteinServiceAgent User , and click Next.
ee.. Click Assign.
185

=== PAGE 190 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
33.. Create a custom topic to add to your agent, and add it to your agent.
To create custom topics or to add topics, see Create a Custom Topic in the Legacy Builder or Add a
Topic to Your Agent in the Legacy Builder.
This example shows an Agent Topic configuration for the Northern Trail Outfitters website.
Field Value
Name Outdoor Gear Recommendations
Classification Description When a user asks to see, view, or display outdoor gear, products,
or equipment use this topic. You must also use this topic when a
customer writes they want to know more about a category or
specific gear types like "Tell me more about hiking boots", or "I
want to discover trail running shoes", or "Show me waterproof
jackets".
Scope Display the output from the NTO_OutdoorGearFinder action. If
you are not able to answer a question, gently explain that you are
not able to answer. Never try to transfer to an agent. If a
customer's intent is to purchase gear, check availability, or need
detailed sizing assistance, use the Topic "Product Support".
Instructions
Display the exact JSON received as an output from
NTO_OutdoorGearFinder action and it must start with ```JSON.
Before launching any output action, analyze the customer
utterance. Take into account Northern Trail Outfitters has 2 main
gender categories: Men, Women. However, gender is just one
dimension of our product organization.
Under our product structure, Northern Trail Outfitters has these
main categories.
Product Types:
Shoes,
Jackets,
Tops,
Bottoms,
Accessories
Activity Categories:
186

=== PAGE 191 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
Field Value
Hiking,
Trail Running,
Boots,
Rainwear,
Hoodies & Sweatshirts,
Sandals,
Radical Series
See Also
Salesforce Help: Get to Know Agentforce Service Agent
Salesforce Help: Topics in the Legacy Builder
Configure Context Variables
Context variables pass data, such as a customer's identity or browsing history, from your website to the
agent. For example, the AWAC can pass a context variable IndividualId to the agent. This immediate
context allows the agent to personalize interactions–like suggesting outdoor gear based on the Northern
Trail Outfitters–without asking redundant questions.
Consider a scenario where a user accesses the Northern Trail Outfitters website, browses for “winter
hiking boots,” and opens the chat widget to ask about sizing.
•
Without a context variable such as IndividualId , the agent sees only an unauthenticated guest
user on the Boots page. The agent must ask questions such as, "What is your name?" or "Have you
shopped with us before?" to understand the user’s history. Consequently, the user feels treated like a
stranger despite being a loyal customer.
•
With the IndividualId context variable configured, the website automatically passes the variable
to the agent. The agent uses the IndividualId to instantly query Data 360. This query returns the
user profile, revealing purchase history and preferences. The agent can skip the basic questions and
immediately ask: "Hi! Are you looking for boots to match the hiking socks you bought last month? We
have the XTrekker boots available in your usual size 8."
To use context variables, see . Use Context Variables in Messaging Conversations.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Configure the Context Passing Framework for Agentforce
Salesforce Developers Blog: Control Agent Access and Decision-Making with Variables and Filters
187

=== PAGE 192 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
Create an Agent Action
To help your agent automatically recognize customer requests and respond with structured, data-driven
suggestions, convert your prompt template into an agent action. Agent actions turn flex prompt
templates into conversational building blocks that agents can invoke dynamically.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create a custom agent action: Manage Agentforce Service Agents AND Manage
AI Agents
For example, when you convert a flex prompt template, such as NTO_OutdoorGearFinder , into an
agent action, you equip your agent with a dynamic tool to handle specific customer requests. If a
customer asks for hiking boots, the agent identifies this intent and automatically invokes the action
without human intervention. The agent then retrieves real-time data from Data 360 to generate
personalized product recommendations. Instead of requiring custom code for every potential inquiry,
the agent uses the defined logic and data retrieval capabilities of the template to deliver structured, data-
driven responses directly within the conversation.
11.. Create a custom agent action.
See Create a Custom Agent Action in the Legacy Builder.
This example configuration shows the agent action specifications for the Northern Trail Outfitters
agent.
Field ACTION
Reference Action Type Select Prompt Template.
Reference Action Select your prompt template. For example,
NTO_OutdoorGearFinder .
Agent Action Label Keep default.
Agent Action API Name Keep default.
22.. Click Next.
33.. Configure the action instructions based on your requirements.
This example shows the agent action instructions for the Northern Trail Outfitters website.
This action is used to generate personalized outdoor gear recommendations fo
r customers
based on their activity interests and preferences. The action searches the N
188

=== PAGE 193 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
orthern Trail
Outfitters product catalog and returns gear suggestions in JSON format for d
isplay in the
web component. Execute this action when customers ask for product recommenda
tions, want to
see gear options, or inquire about specific outdoor activities.
44.. For the Input parameter, set the instructions.
This example shows the input instructions for the Northern Trail Outfitters website.
Customer query or request for recommendations. Contains the user's input abo
ut activities,
preferences, or specific product types.
55.. For Prompt Response Output, select Show in conversation.
66.. Click Finish.
77.. Add the action to the topic. To allow the agent to use this action when discussing outdoor gear, add it
to the Outdoor Gear Recommendations topic you created earlier.
See Add an Action to a Topic in the Legacy Builder.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Agent Actions in the Legacy Builder
Salesforce Help: Best Practices for Agent Action Instructions
Create an Enhanced Chat Deployment
To integrate agent conversations into your website, create a web deployment. For adaptive website
implementations, create a custom web chat deployment to use the Enhanced Chat REST API for agent
conversations outside of the standard Salesforce chat widget.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To set up omni-channel flows, to create or change Customize Application
queues, AND to create Enhanced Chat
deployment
11.. Set up routing and queues to channel customer inquiries.
aa.. Create a new routing configuration.
bb.. Create a queue, and include the routing configuration created in the previous step.
22.. Configure an omni-channel flow.
aa.. Create an omni-channel flow.
189

=== PAGE 194 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
bb.. Drag the Route Work action onto the flow canvas.
cc.. Add a label to the action.
dd.. For Set Input Values | Record ID, select the recordId variable that you created while setting up
the flow in Step 2a.
ee.. In the Route To field, select Agentforce Service Agent, and then select your agent to route the work
item to.
ff.. In the Fallback Queue field, select the queue that you configured in Step 1b.
gg.. Activate the flow.
33.. Create a messaging channel.
aa.. Create a new messaging channel.
bb.. Enter the domain of the website where you want to deploy the agent.
cc.. Select the omni-channel flow as well as the fallback queue you have created earlier.
dd.. Copy and save the code snippet on the Configuration page to add the messaging deployment to
your website.
44.. Create a custom client deployment to deliver a highly customized UI with the Enhanced Chat REST
API.
See Configure a Custom Client Deployment for Enhanced Chat.
55.. Enable Enhanced Chat REST API.
See Enhanced Chat API.
66.. Access the code snippet you saved in Step 3d, and copy the values.
aa.. The 18-digit Organization ID (orgId).
bb.. Enhanced Chat REST API base URL for your instance, such as.
https://myinstance.my.pc-rnd.salesforce-scrt.com
cc.. The developer name assigned during deployment creation.
77.. Save the details in this format and keep them for when you configure the website connector.
{
"OrganizationId": "00D000000000000EAA",
"DeveloperName": "agent_custom_client",
"Url": "https://myinstance.my.pc-rnd.salesforce-scrt.com"
}
See Also
Salesforce Help: Configure an Enhanced Web Chat Deployment
Salesforce Help: Advanced Routing with Omni-Channel Flows
Send Context to the Agent via Enhanced Chat
To allow the agent to fetch context from the data graph, pass the Data 360 Web SDK anonymous ID to
the chat client. This configuration makes the Individual_Id available to the agent.
190

=== PAGE 195 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
window.addEventListener("onEmbeddedMessagingReady", () => {
embeddedservice_bootstrap.prechatAPI.setHiddenPrechatFields({
"Individual_Id": SalesforceInteractions.getAnonymousId()
});
});
window.addEventListener("onEmbeddedMessagingConversationStarted", (event) => {
SalesforceInteractions.sendEvent({
interaction: {
name: 'conversation-started',
eventType: 'agentEngagement',
conversationId: event.detail.conversationId
}
});
});
For details on where to place this code, see Configure a Data 360 Web Connector.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Set Up Enhanced Chat for Context Passing
Set Up the Adaptive Web Agent Component
Now that your Salesforce Agent, Data 360, and Enhanced Chat Configuration are in place, you’re ready to
implement the Adaptive Web Agent Component (AWAC). This component enables you to pair
conversational AI responses with dynamic content zones on your website. By using custom React
templates, you can create personalized experiences that display rich content alongside the agent's chat
window.
To get the resources needed to configure the component and start building these templates, contact
your Salesforce account executive.
See Also
Set Up Agentforce Adaptive Websites
Configure a Data 360 Web Connector
To enable real-time behavioral tracking and provide the IndividualId context for personalized agent
conversations, create a Data 360 web connector. The web connector captures customer engagement
events and sends them to Data 360, where they enrich customer profiles for improved personalization.
191

=== PAGE 196 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To set up a web or mobile app connection: Data Cloud Architect
11.. Connect your website to Data 360 using a connector.
See Connect a Website or Mobile App to Data 360.
22.. Create and upload a sitemap for the website.
A sitemap is a JavaScript file that defines the logic to capture data across different pages of your
website. It's used by the SDK to collect interaction data and share it with Data 360.
See Create and Upload a Sitemap.
33.. Add this JavaScript configuration to the sitemap section.
Use the configuration values from your Enhanced Chat deployment. See Step 7 in Create an Enhanced
Chat Deployment.
// Set local session variable with constants needed to power the Adaptive We
b
// Agent Component (AWAC)
if (window.sessionStorage.getItem("SEARCH_COMPONENT_WEB_STORAGE_00D1Q000001f
dJS") == null) {
window.sessionStorage.setItem(
"SEARCH_COMPONENT_WEB_STORAGE_00D1Q000001fdJS",
JSON.stringify({
ORGANIZATION_ID: "00D1Q000001fdJS",
MESSAGING_URL: "https://pspdemo.my.salesforce-scrt.com",
DEPLOYMENT_DEVELOPER_NAME: "Web_Curation_Custom_Channel"
})
)
}
// This function must be generated from the Adaptive Web Agent Component (AW
AC)
// Library and added to the sitemap
window.addSearchComponentToPage()
// YOU MUST ADD THIS SECTION FROM AWAC REPO
function addSearchComponentToPage() {
// LIBRARY COMPILED CODE GOES HERE
}
This JavaScript connects Data 360 behavioral tracking, your website's session storage, and the
Adaptive Web Agent Component (AWAC) so that the agent can conduct meaningful conversations
192

=== PAGE 197 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
using real-time customer context and product data.
Note The sessionStorage key includes the OrgId (for example,
SEARCH_COMPONENT_WEB_STORAGE_00D1Q000001fdJS ). If you ever change the JSON
configuration values, you must update the key.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Web and Mobile App Connector
Add the Web SDK to Your Website
To power intelligent agent conversations with real-time customer context, add the connector script to
your web pages. This setup connects Data 360 behavioral tracking, session storage, and the Adaptive
Web Agent Component (AWAC) using your specific deployment configuration.
11.. Add the Web SDK script.
aa.. From Setup, go to your web connector definition, and then locate your unique CDN script URL at
the bottom.
bb.. Add this script URL to the <head> tag of your web pages.
22.. Initialize the Web SDK.
Initialize the SDK by calling SalesforceInteractions.init() . During development, we
recommend setting the logging level to 4 (Debug).
<head>
<script src="https://cdn.c360a.salesforce.com/beacon/c360a/YOUR_CONNECTO
R_ID/scripts/c360a.min.js"></script>
<script>
// Initialize the SDK
SalesforceInteractions.init();
// Set logging level for debugging (remove in production)
SalesforceInteractions.setLoggingLevel(4);
</script>
</head>
When you load your website, the Adaptive Web Agent Component loads on the page.
See Also
Developers: Initialization
193

=== PAGE 198 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
Set Up Agent Engagement Tracking
To capture agent interactions and send them to Data 360 to further enrich profiles, configure event
listeners. Agent engagement events track conversations, messages, and user actions. These events flow
to Data 360 and update customer profiles for improved, future personalization.
Because these steps are technical, we recommend contacting your Salesforce account executive for
assistance.
The following Enhanced Chat events are tracked by default.
Event Listener Description
Conversation Started onEmbeddedMessagingConver Customer begins a conversation
sationStarted
Conversation Closed onEmbeddedMessagingConver Conversation ends
sationClosed
Agent Ready onEmbeddedMessagingReady Agent component initializes
Message Sent onEmbeddedMessageSent Customer sends a message
Message Click onEmbeddedMessageClick Customer clicks a link in a message
Transfer Requested onEmbeddedMessagingConver Conversation routes to a human agent
sationRouted
11.. To connect web sessions to customer profiles, access your website's embedded messaging script, and
then add Individual_Id as a prechat field.
window.addEventListener("onEmbeddedMessagingReady", () => {
const chatIndividualId = SalesforceInteractions.getAnonymousId();
embeddedservice_bootstrap.prechatAPI.setHiddenPrechatFields({
"Individual_Id": chatIndividualId
});
});
22.. To capture agent engagement events and send them to Data 360, access your website's embedded
messaging script, and then add the following event listener code.
function addMiawEventListeners(eventListenerName, interactionName, eventTyp
e, attributes) {
window.addEventListener(eventListenerName, (event) => {
SalesforceInteractions.sendEvent({
interaction: {
name: interactionName,
eventType: eventType,
194

=== PAGE 199 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
attributes: attributes
}
})
})
}
var attributes = {
embeddedServiceDeployment: 'Your_Deployment_Name',
conversationId: event.detail.conversationId
}
addMiawEventListeners('onEmbeddedMessagingButtonClicked', 'agent-click', 'ag
entEngagement', attributes)
addMiawEventListeners('onEmbeddedMessagingConversationStarted', 'agent-conve
rsation-started', 'agentEngagement', attributes)
addMiawEventListeners('onEmbeddedMessagingConversationClosed', 'agent-conver
sation-closed', 'agentEngagement', attributes)
addMiawEventListeners('onEmbeddedMessagingReady', 'agent-ready', 'agentEngag
ement', attributes)
addMiawEventListeners('onEmbeddedMessageSent', 'agent-message-sent', 'agentE
ngagement', attributes)
addMiawEventListeners('onEmbeddedMessageClick', 'agent-message-click', 'agen
tEngagement', attributes)
See Also
Developers: Event Listeners
Deliver Personalized Recommendations
Improve customer engagement by providing them with the most relevant real-time product and content
recommendations. The standard topic, Personalized Recommendations, includes two key
Personalization actions - Understand User Intent and Get Recommendations - that work together to
interpret what a user is looking for and use that intent to refine and deliver tailored recommendations.
This powerful combination allows your agent to handle even new intents from both anonymous and
known users, ensuring a personalized experience for every customer.
From User Intent to Personalized Recommendations
The Personalization: Understand User Intent action is the first step in providing intelligent
recommendations. It analyzes a user's search query or other interactions to determine what they are
looking for. This intent is then used to refine the output of the Personalization: Get Recommendations
action.
By using these two actions together, you can move from generic recommendations to a truly
195

=== PAGE 200 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
personalized experience that responds to your customer's immediate needs. The first action understands
what the user wants, and the second action delivers it.
For a comprehensive overview of this functionality, see Decisioning Onboarding Guide.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Personalization: Get Recommendations
Salesforce Help: Personalization: Understand User Intent
Setup Configuration
Complete a one-time Data 360 and Personalization setup to prepare your system for intent-based
recommendations. These steps ensure that user query data is correctly captured and then used to train
the recommendation engine, which turns raw data into relevant, personalized experiences. Configuring
the agent setup then connects this recommendation engine to your users, enabling the agent with the
necessary topics and actions to receive user data, understand their intent, and deliver personalized
results.
Configure Data 360
Update the web schema in Data 360 to capture user query intent as a new event and map that data
correctly so it can be used for personalization.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To manage web schema in Data 360: Data Cloud Architect
To update data streams, mappings, and data Data Cloud Architect
graphs
11.. Add a new event type User Query to your website's existing event schema to allow the system to
capture, log, and track user intent using the standard agent action.
aa.. In Data Cloud Setup, search for and select Websites & Mobile Apps.
bb.. Select your connection from the list and download the existing schema.
cc.. Append the following User Query event JSON object to the events section in your schema file. This
new event includes standard fields and a custom query field that holds the user's search term.
{
"developerName": "query",
"masterLabel": "Query",
"category": "Engagement",
"availabilityStatus": "INUSE",
"externalDataTranFields": [
{
196

=== PAGE 201 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
"masterLabel": "category",
"dataType": "Text",
"developerName": "category",
"isDataRequired": true,
"isCurrencyIsoCode": false
},
{
"masterLabel": "dateTime",
"dataType": "DateTime",
"developerName": "dateTime",
"isDataRequired": true,
"isCurrencyIsoCode": false
},
{
"masterLabel": "deviceId",
"dataType": "Text",
"developerName": "deviceId",
"isDataRequired": true,
"isCurrencyIsoCode": false
},
{
"masterLabel": "eventId",
"dataType": "Text",
"developerName": "eventId",
"isDataRequired": true,
"primaryIndexOrder": 1,
"isCurrencyIsoCode": false
},
{
"masterLabel": "eventType",
"dataType": "Text",
"developerName": "eventType",
"isDataRequired": true,
"isCurrencyIsoCode": false
},
{
"masterLabel": "query",
"dataType": "Text",
"developerName": "query",
"isDataRequired": true,
"isCurrencyIsoCode": false
},
{
"masterLabel": "sessionId",
197

=== PAGE 202 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
"dataType": "Text",
"developerName": "sessionId",
"isDataRequired": true,
"isCurrencyIsoCode": false
},
{
"masterLabel": "sourceChannel",
"dataType": "Text",
"developerName": "sourceChannel",
"isDataRequired": false,
"isCurrencyIsoCode": false
}
],
"fieldCount": 8,
"availabilityStatusLabel": {
"label": "In Use",
"rawValue": "INUSE"
},
"streamingAppLabel": "Consumer agent test site"
}
dd.. Upload the updated schema file.
22.. Sync the updated schema data with your data stream and map the new fields to a Data Model Object
(DMO).
aa.. In Data 360, go to the Data Streams tab, and select your data stream from the list.
bb.. Click Sync Schema to bring in the new User Query event fields.
cc.. Go to the Data Lake Objects tab, and access the updated DLO.
dd.. Under Data Mapping, click Review.
ee.. Map the User Query event to the Web Search Engagement DMO.
userQuery dlo web search engagement dmo
eventType Engagement Type
query Search Query
sourceChannel Unmapped
ff.. Go to the Data Model tab, and select the Web Search Engagement DMO.
gg.. Select Relationships, and use the Edit option to add an N:1 relationship to the Individual DMO, if it’s
not present.
33.. Add the newly mapped DMO to your Profile Data Graph to make it available for personalization.
aa.. In Data 360, go to the Data Graphs tab, and select your profile data graph from the list.
bb.. Add the Web Search Engagement DMO under the Individual object.
cc.. Under DMO Fields, make sure to select the Search Query field, as well as other key fields for creating
an engagement signal (such as Individual ID and Created Date).
198

=== PAGE 203 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
Note For the semantic model to function efficiently, make sure that your catalog DMOs are
updated with relevant metadata.
Configure Personalization
After your data is correctly configured in Data 360, set up the necessary components in Salesforce
Personalization.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
Personalization Admin permission set
•
To create engagement signals
•
To create recommenders
11.. Create an engagement signal based on Web Search Engagement DMO so that the recommender
knows to use the Search Query data to understand user intent. For more information, see Configure
an Engagement Signal.
••
Select Web Search Engagement as the Data Model Object.
••
Leave the Catalog id field empty.
22.. Create a custom objective-based recommender that uses the newly created engagement signal. For
more information, see Configure an Objective-Based Recommender.
When configuring the custom objective, ensure that you select the newly created engagement signal
in the engagement signal selection field, in addition to any others you wish to use.
33.. Assign your new recommender to a personalization point through a personalization decision to make
it accessible to your agent. For more information, see Add a Decision to a Personalization Point.
Configure the Agent
Configure and update your agent to handle user queries and deliver personalized recommendations.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To build and manage Service Agents:
Manage Agentforce Service Agents
AND
Manage AI Agents
OR
199

=== PAGE 204 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
Customize Application
Meet these prerequisites before configuring the agent to identify the individual and provide
recommendations.
•
Set Up Einstein Generative AI.
•
Set Up a Service Agent.
•
Connect the service agent to your website. For detailed instructions, see Prepare a Salesforce Org for
Enhanced Chat.
Note To ensure that links to external sites or content generated from external domains work
correctly, you must add any external URLs your agent uses to an allowlist. You can do this by adding
the domains to the Trusted URLs list in Setup or by including the specific URLs in the agent's
instructions. If a URL is not on an allowlist, the agent's response containing the link is blocked. For
more information or instructions, see this Knowledge article.
11.. Use the following method to identify the individual through pre-chat data, and map the data to the
flow variables. To send query events, your agent needs your connector's App Source ID and the
Tenant-Specific Endpoint for your Data 360 instance along with the Individual ID.
aa.. In the Messaging Session object, create two custom text fields named Individual_ID and
Connector_App_Source_Id. For more information, see Create Custom Fields.
bb.. In the Agent Builder, add the created fields to the Included Fields list in the Context Variables for
the agent to use. For more information, see Use Context Variables in Agent Conversations.
cc.. Create a pre-chat form and add the hidden custom fields Individual_ID and
Connector_App_Source_Id to it. For more information, see Customize Pre-Chat for Enhanced
Chat.
dd.. Map the pre-chat custom fields Individual_ID and Connector_App_Source_Id to the
messaging channel and update the inbound omni-channel to store the field value in the Messaging
Session object. For more information, see Map Pre-Chat Values in Omni-Channel Flow.
ee.. Route the records to your agent. For more information on routing to your agent, see Route Work
Items to Queues.
ff.. In Data Cloud Setup, search for and select Websites & Mobile Apps.
gg.. Select the website and scroll to the bottom to find the App Source ID under Integration Guide.
The App Source ID is highlighted in the following image.
hh.. Copy the ID.
ii.. To fetch the Individual ID from the Web SDK, use this JavaScript snippet in your website code,
depending on the website type.
200

=== PAGE 205 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
// Fetch Individual ID using getAnonymousId function from
SalesforceInteractions SDK const chatIndividualId =
SalesforceInteractions.getAnonymousId();
jj.. To send the Individual ID as well as the copied App Source ID to the agent, use this JavaScript
snippet in your website code, depending on the website type.
// Send Individual ID and Connector_App_Source_Id to ASA
embeddedservice_bootstrap.prechatAPI.setHiddenPrechatFields({"Individual_Id"
: chatIndividualId, "AppSource_Id":
"e9afad00-1b84-4381-b76e-984e1fa26841";})
For more information, see Hidden Pre-Chat in Enhanced Web Chat.
22.. In Agent Builder, add the Personalized Recommendations topic to your agent. This topic includes two
key actions: Personalization: Understand User Intent and Personalization: Get
Personalization Recommendations. For more information, see Add a Topic from the Asset
Library.
33.. Edit the topic instructions to update the response format to match your product or content catalog.
For information on editing a topic, see Edit a Standard Topic.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Personalization: Get Recommendations
Salesforce Help: Personalization: Understand User Intent
Salesforce Help: Map Pre-Chat Values in Omni-Channel Flow
Salesforce Help: Use Context Variables in Agent Conversations
Configure Personalization: Get Context Action
Use Salesforce Personalization with Agentforce to enable your agents to make better decisions based on
real-time access to summarized profile data.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
Available in: Lightning Experience in Enterprise, Unlimited, Professional, and Developer editions with
Data 360.
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To assign actions to a topic
Manage AI agents AND the required permissions
for your agent type
OR
Customize Application
201

=== PAGE 206 ===
Salesforce Personalization Agentforce for Salesforce Personalization
Meet these prerequisites before configuring the agent topic to add the Get Context action and update
the instructions.
•
Set up Data 360.
•
Set up the required profile data graphs with either the Individual ID or the Unified Individual ID as the
root DMO, containing useful contextual information to help your agent perform actions more
effectively.
•
Set Up Einstein Generative AI.
11.. Launch the agent and add the Personalization: Get Context action to the required topic using the
instructions in Add an Action to a Topic. If you're editing a standard topic, use the instructions in Edit a
Standard Topic.
Tip You can add the action to multiple topics, and new topics.
22.. From the Topic Configuration tab, edit the topic field to add a new instruction and paste the following
instruction.
If an individualId is known, before performing another action, call the
createContextPersonalization action to retrieve {DataGraph API Name} context.
Use the sourceId {Agent Version ID} and subjectId {Topic API Name}.
field description
The API name of the data graph representing
DataGraph API Name your individual. You can find this on the Data
Graphs tab.
The version ID of the agent. You can find it
Agent Version ID appended to the end of the URL when editing
the agent in Agent Builder.
The API name of the topic you're currently
Topic API Name editing. You can find this in the Topic
Configuration tab.
Example: If an individualId is known, before performing another action, call the
createContextPersonalization action to retrieve IndividualDG context. Use the
sourceId 0X9SB000000ymMj0AI and subjectId CustomerServiceAssistant.
33.. (Optional) Add additional instructions to guide the agent to use the data from the data graph in a
specific way. For example, you can instruct the agent to call createContextPersonalization only once
per topic if you don’t expect real time updates to the source data graph during the conversation.
44.. To save your changes, click Finish.
55.. Activate the agent.
After activation, allow the agent a minimum of 60 seconds to allow Personalization to preprocess the
configuration.
See Also
202

=== PAGE 207 ===
Salesforce Personalization Batch Personalization Decisions for Customer Segments
Salesforce Help: Personalization: Get Context
Agents and Data Usage in Personalization
When using Agentforce along with Salesforce Personalization, review this table to understand the type of
data used by agents.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
Available in: Lightning Experience in Enterprise, Unlimited, Professional, and Developer editions with
Data 360.
The table lists both the Customer Data that is used, which is data submitted by the Customer to our
services as defined in our Main Services Agreement (MSA), and the usage data that is used, which is data
relating to users’ interactions with Salesforce. Data submitted to an agent may be used to train AI
models, to improve your services and features, or to develop new features that you can access without
additional cost.
Customer data and generative ai model
feature global model used
salesforce objects used used
Agent Action:
NA Yes No
Understand User Intent
Agent Action: Get
User engagement data
Personalized Yes No
from DMOs
Recommendations
Agent Action: Get Data graphs and related
Yes No
Personalized Context objects
See Also
Salesforce Help: Personalization: Get Recommendations
Salesforce Help: Personalization: Understand User Intent
Salesforce Help: Personalization: Get Context
Batch Personalization Decisions for Customer Segments
With Batch Personalizations, you can create personalized decisions for a Data 360 segment and save the
decisions to Data Model Objects (DMO) in Data 360. You can then send the batch personalization
output to other platforms like Marketing Cloud Engagement (MCE), Google Cloud Platform (GCP),
Amazon S3, and Azure to power your cross-channel marketing campaigns. For example, using Data 360,
Salesforce Personalization, and MCE, you can use recommendations created for a Data 360 customer
segment in MCE emails to notify your customers about an upcoming year-end sale.
203

=== PAGE 208 ===
Salesforce Personalization Batch Personalization Decisions for Customer Segments
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
Available in: Lightning Experience in Enterprise, Unlimited, Professional, and Developer editions with
Data 360.
To create and use batch personalization decisions in external systems like MCE, make sure you perform
these tasks.
•
In Data 360, configure the segment of users that you want to target. For example, build a segment on
unified individuals who made a purchase during the previous year-end sales.
•
In Salesforce Personalization, configure a personalization point that you want to evaluate the segment
against. For example, create a personalization point to provide recommendations on products that are
eligible for the year-end sale.
•
In Salesforce Personalization, create a batch personalization for the targeted segment and
personalization point. When you run a batch personalization, the output is saved to a batch
personalization output DMO in Data 360.
•
In Data 360, create a DMO activation for the batch personalization output DMO and select the target
system (like MCE or S3) to send your output to.
•
In the external system, leverage batch personalization output attributes to power your campaign. For
example, in MCE, you can use AMPscript to include batch personalization output attributes to
compose your campaign messages. For sample Ampscript templates, see Sample AMPscript
Templates for Batch Personalization.
Create a Batch Personalization
Create and configure a batch personalization to generate personalization decisions for a customer
segment.
Understanding the Batch Personalization Output DMO
When a batch personalization is run, it creates a related decision output DMO in Data 360. The DMO
stores the decision payload along with other details related to the batch personalization.
Create DMO Activation Against a Batch Personalization Output DMO
To send the output of a batch personalization to other systems like MCE, create a corresponding DMO
activation in Data 360.
Batch Personalization FAQs
Answers to your questions about Batch Personalizations for Salesforce Personalization.
See Also
Salesforce Help: Create Segments in Data 360
Salesforce Help:Activation and Activation Targets
Batch Personalization Output DMO
Create a Batch Personalization
Sample AMPscript Templates for Batch Personalization
204

=== PAGE 209 ===
Salesforce Personalization Batch Personalization Decisions for Customer Segments
Create a Batch Personalization
Create and configure a batch personalization to generate personalization decisions for a customer
segment.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
USER PERMISSIONS NEEDED
To create batch personalizations
Personalization Batch Decision
Market Segment Definitions
11.. From the App Launcher, search for and select Batch Personalizations.
22.. Click New.
33.. In the New Batch Personalization window, select a data space.
The data space you select determines the target segments that are available for you to select from.
44.. Select a target segment.
You can select individual or unified individual segments. The segment you select can impact the
personalization points available for selection in the subsequent step.
••
Selecting a segment rooted on the individual object makes all personalization points available for
selection.
••
Selecting a segment rooted on the unified individual object makes only personalization points that
have data graphs built against the same unified individual object available for selection.
55.. Select a personalization point to evaluate the target segment against and click Next.
Important If the personalization point is configured against a profile data graph rooted on the
unified individual object, all individual IDs of that object receive the same decision output. To
avoid unnecessary credit consumption for duplicate decisions, Batch Personalizations select only
one underlying individual ID to generate the decision output.
66.. (Optional) Select contact points to filter your target segment for batch personalization and click Next.
Contact point filtering makes sure that batch personalization generates decisions for only individuals
who can be contacted using outbound channels like email, SMS, and so on.
Contact points available for selection are based on the contact point DMOs defined on the profile data
graph used in the personalization point.
You can select multiple contact points. Decisions are processed only for profiles with at least one of
the selected contact points. If you don't select a contact point, decisions are made for every profile in
the target segment.
77.. Enter a batch personalization name and an optional description.
205

=== PAGE 210 ===
Salesforce Personalization Batch Personalization Decisions for Customer Segments
The batch personalization API name, output DMO label, and output DMO name are auto-generated.
The output DMO name is used to name the DMO where batch personalization decisions are saved.
The output DMO is used in Data 360 DMO Activations to send the batch personalization decision
output to a 3rd party system like MCE, Azure, SFTP, GCP, or S3. For more information about DMO
activations, see Activation for Data 360 Data Model Objects.
88.. (Optional) Update the batch personalization schedule.
By default, this field is set to the existing schedule of the selected segment. To change the schedule,
edit the publish schedule of the segment selected for this batch personalization. Possible refresh
options include 1hr, 4hrs, 12hrs, 24hrs, and no refresh.
99.. Select a refresh type.
Option Description
Full This option generates new decisions for all
members in a segment.
Incremental This option generates decisions only for the new
members added to the segment after the last
run.
1100.. (Optional) To trigger the linked DMO activation when a batch personalization completes, select DMO
Activation Trigger.
Note Selecting this checkbox doesn’t automatically create an associated DMO activation. Use
Data 360 Activations to create a DMO activation against the batch personalization output DMO.
1111.. (Optional) Select the status of batch personalization.
You can either activate or pause a batch personalization. Only an active batch personalization
generates decisions when the associated segment refreshes. You can have 20 active batch
personalization jobs.
Note To determine whether a batch personalization job is active, check the Batch Status attribute
in the batch personalization object. This attribute indicates only the object synchronization status.
It doesn't dictate whether the batch personalization job runs.
1122.. Save the batch personalization.
1133.. Active batch personalizations automatically run when the selected segment refreshes. To manually
trigger a batch personalization, select Run Batch Personalization from the action menu.
Batch personalization decisions are stored in the related output DMO for 30 days. All decisions are
recorded in the personalization log for analytics and attribution reporting.
After creating a batch personalization, make sure you create a corresponding DMO activation in Data 360
to send the outputs of the batch personalization to a third party system. For more information, see
Activation for Data 360 Data Model Objects.
206

=== PAGE 211 ===
Salesforce Personalization Batch Personalization Decisions for Customer Segments
Understanding the Batch Personalization Output DMO
When a batch personalization is run, it creates a related decision output DMO in Data 360. The DMO
stores the decision payload along with other details related to the batch personalization.
To use decision output records in cross-channel personalization, activate the decision output DMO to a
set of Data 360 activation targets. Data 360 supports MCE, SFTP, S3, GCP, and Azure DMO activation
targets.
See Also
Batch Personalization Output DMO
Create DMO Activation Against a Batch Personalization Output DMO
Create DMO Activation Against a Batch Personalization Output
DMO
To send the output of a batch personalization to other systems like MCE, create a corresponding DMO
activation in Data 360.
When configuring a DMO activation against a batch personalization, keep these considerations in mind.
•
Select Batch as the DMO activation type.
•
To make sure all necessary data is passed to the activation target, add all attributes from the batch
personalization output DMO to the activation.
For detailed instruction about creating and configuring a DMO activation in Data 360, see Activation for
Data 360 Data Model Objects.
Batch Personalization FAQs
Answers to your questions about Batch Personalizations for Salesforce Personalization.
What happens if the individual ID selected for the decision against a
personalization point rooted on a unified individual isn’t the ID I want to
send my message to in Marketing Cloud Engagement (MCE)?
In addition to the individual ID used for the decision, batch personalization also writes the unified
individual ID that it was derived from. If a table exists in MCE that has all individual IDs related to a
unified individual, use the unified individual ID as the entry point to find the individual ID required for
the outbound message.
207

=== PAGE 212 ===
Salesforce Personalization Einstein Studio Model Predictions for Personalization
Does personalization attempt to retry batch decision jobs if they fail?
Yes, Salesforce Personalization retries a failed job up to three times. If the failure persists, an error code is
logged on the fault code attribute visible on the batch personalization detail page. The job then moves
into an error state and doesn’t process until triggered manually.
How many batch personalization jobs can I have?
You can have 20 active batch personalization jobs. “Active” means that the personalization job runs on
segment refresh and is defined by the “Batch Status” attribute on the batch personalization object. The
“Status” attribute is indicative of the object sync status and doesn't dictate whether the personalization
job runs.
Why are decision credits consumed for batch personalization less than the
members of the segment?
If contact point filtering is used, the number of decisions made for a given segment can differ from the
number of individuals in the segment.
Will my batch personalization and corresponding DMO activation run
automatically after I set them up?
Yes, the batch personalization job runs each time the corresponding Data 360 segment refreshes. If you
select “Trigger linked DMO Activation” on your batch personalization, it automatically triggers the DMO
activation to run.
Einstein Studio Model Predictions for Personalization
Use real-time predictions from Einstein Studio models in Salesforce Personalization targeting rules to
refine your personalization decisions. For example, consider you have a predictive model in Einstein
Studio that predicts the chances of customers buying an item from your website. You can use this output
in your targeting rules to determine the customers eligible for a special discount.
RREEQQUUIIRREEDD EEDDIITTIIOONNSS
Available in: Lightning Experience in Enterprise, Unlimited, Professional, and Developer editions with
Data 360.
To use the predictions of a model, map the model to data graphs used in personalization points. You can
use an existing model or create one. Before you create and map your model, keep these considerations
in mind.
208

=== PAGE 213 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization References
•
Build your model using Model Builder in Einstein Studio. If you want to use an existing model in
Einstein Studio, make sure the model is built using Model Builder. For prerequisites and
considerations, see Use Real-Time Predictions to Drive Personalized Recommendations .
•
Map your model to real-time personalization data graphs.
After you map a model to a data graph, you can use the model's predictions when defining the targeting
rules to make real-time personalization decisions. To create and configure targeting rules to use Einstein
Studio model predictions, see Create a Targeting Rule.
Salesforce Personalization References
Use these references when configuring or validating Salesforce Data 360 calculated insights for using
Salesforce Personalization in Marketing Cloud Next.
Required Personalization Intelligence Calculated Insights
These insights are required for the Personalization Intelligence app. Install the insights before creating
the Personalization Intelligence dashboard.
Calculated Insight Example SQL Expressions
Use these example SQL expressions to create calculated insights for use in near real-time item data
graphs.
Website App Connector Object Field Mapping
Refer to these tables when mapping the website app connector object fields.
Required Personalization Intelligence Calculated Insights
These insights are required for the Personalization Intelligence app. Install the insights before creating
the Personalization Intelligence dashboard.
Daily Personalization Uniques Calculated Insight
Personalization Intelligence Analytics requires the daily personalization uniques calculated insight.
Daily Personalization Requests Calculated Insight
Personalization Intelligence Analytics requires the daily personalization requests calculated insight.
Daily Personalization Uniques Calculated Insight
Personalization Intelligence Analytics requires the daily personalization uniques calculated insight.
Object Parameters
•
Required name: DailyPersonalizationUniques
•
Required API name: DailyPersonalizationUniques__cio
209

=== PAGE 214 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization References
Insight Expression
SELECT
DATE_ADD(ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__RequestDateTime__c,0) as Reque
stDate__c,
APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT(ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__IndividualId__c)
as NumUniqueIndividuals__c, APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT(ssot__PersonalizationLo
g__dlm.ssot__PersonalizationRequestId__c) as NumRequests__c,
APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT(ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__PersonalizationI
d__c) as NumPersonalizationRequests__c,
APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT(ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__ContentObjectAPIN
ame__c) as NumUniqueRecordTypes__c,
APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT(ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__ContentObjectReco
rdId__c) as NumUniqueRecords__c
FROM
ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm
GROUP BY
RequestDate__c
Daily Personalization Requests Calculated Insight
Personalization Intelligence Analytics requires the daily personalization requests calculated insight.
Object Parameters
•
Required name: DailyPersonalizationRequests
•
Required API name: DailyPersonalizationRequests__cio
Insight Expression
SELECT
DATE_ADD(ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__RequestDateTime__c, 0) as Requ
estDate__c,
ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__PersonalizationPointId__c as Personaliz
ationPointId__c,
ssot__PersonalizationPoint__dlm.ssot__Name__c as PersonalizationPointNam
e__c,
ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__PersonalizationType__c as Personalizati
onType__c,
ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__PersonalizationDecisionId__c as Persona
lizationDecisionId__c,
ssot__PersonalizationDecision__dlm.ssot__Name__c as PersonalizationDecision
210

=== PAGE 215 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization References
Name__c,
ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__PersonalizerId__c as PersonalizerId__c,
ssot__Personalizer__dlm.ssot__Name__c as PersonalizerName__c,
APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT(ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__PersonalizationRe
questId__c) as NumRequests__c, APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT(ssot__PersonalizationLo
g__dlm.ssot__PersonalizationId__c) as NumPersonalizationRequests__c,
SUM(ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__ResponseTimeMillisecond__c / IFNUL
L(NULLIF(ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__ContentItemsQuantity__c, 0), 1))
as TotalResponseTimeMilliseconds__c,
SUM(ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__ContentItemsQuantity__c / IFNULL(NU
LLIF(ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__ContentItemsQuantity__c, 0), 1)) as N
umContentItems__c,
SUM(ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__ContentLengthBytesNumber__c) as Tot
alContentLength__c
FROM
ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm
LEFT JOIN
ssot__PersonalizationPoint__dlm ON (ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__Per
sonalizationPointId__c = ssot__PersonalizationPoint__dlm.ssot__Id__c)
LEFT JOIN
ssot__PersonalizationDecision__dlm ON (ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.sso
t__PersonalizationDecisionId__c = ssot__PersonalizationDecision__dlm.ssot__I
d__c)
LEFT JOIN
ssot__Personalizer__dlm ON (ssot__PersonalizationLog__dlm.ssot__Personalize
rId__c = ssot__Personalizer__dlm.ssot__Id__c)
GROUP BY
RequestDate__c,
PersonalizationPointId__c,
PersonalizationPointName__c,
PersonalizationType__c,
PersonalizationDecisionId__c,
PersonalizationDecisionName__c,
PersonalizerId__c,
PersonalizerName__c
Calculated Insight Example SQL Expressions
Use these example SQL expressions to create calculated insights for use in near real-time item data
graphs.
Lifetime Value by Brand and Category Calculated Insight
This insight calculates a sum of the lifetime value. You can filter the insight by brand or category.
211

=== PAGE 216 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization References
Product Top Sellers Standard Insight
This insight calculates the sum of products that have been sold. Salesforce Personalization uses the
output from this insight to create a list of top-selling products. The Maximize Revenue objective-based
recommender requires the provided SQL code in the calculated insight.
Co-Bought Standard Insight for Products
This insight determines products purchased along with the product currently being viewed.
Co-Browsed Standard Insight for Articles
This insight determines the articles most co-browsed in reference to the current article.
Lifetime Value by Brand and Category Calculated Insight
This insight calculates a sum of the lifetime value. You can filter the insight by brand or category.
When creating this insight, use the instructions in Create a Calculated Insight Using SQL in Data 360
documentation. You can then add the insight to the Salesforce Personalization near real-time item data
graph.
SELECT
UnifiedIndividual__dlm.ssot__Id__c as unifiedindividualid__c, ssot__GoodsPr
oduct__dlm.ssot__BrandId__c as Brand__c, ssot__GoodsProduct__dlm.ssot__Primary
ProductCategory__c as Category__c,
SUM(ssot__ProductOrderEngagement__dlm.ssot__NetOrderAmount__c) as ltv__c
FROM
UnifiedIndividual__dlm
JOIN
IndividualIdentityLink__dlm
ON
UnifiedIndividual__dlm.ssot__Id__c = IndividualIdentityLink__dlm.UnifiedRec
ordId__c
JOIN
ssot__ProductOrderEngagement__dlm
ON
IndividualIdentityLink__dlm.SourceRecordId__c = ssot__ProductOrderEngagemen
t__dlm.ssot__IndividualId__c
JOIN
ssot__SalesOrderProductEngagement__dlm
ON
ssot__ProductOrderEngagement__dlm.ssot__Id__c = ssot__SalesOrderProductEnga
gement__dlm.ssot__ProductOrderEngagementId__c
JOIN
ssot__GoodsProduct__dlm
ON
ssot__GoodsProduct__dlm.ssot__Id__c = ssot__SalesOrderProductEngagement__dl
m.ssot__ProductId__c
212

=== PAGE 217 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization References
GROUP BY
unifiedindividualid__c, ssot__GoodsProduct__dlm.ssot__BrandId__c, ssot__Goo
dsProduct__dlm.ssot__PrimaryProductCategory__c
Product Top Sellers Standard Insight
This insight calculates the sum of products that have been sold. Salesforce Personalization uses the
output from this insight to create a list of top-selling products. The Maximize Revenue objective-based
recommender requires the provided SQL code in the calculated insight.
When creating this insight, use the instructions in Create a Calculated Insight Using SQL in Data 360
documentation. You can then add the insight to the Salesforce Personalization near real-time item data
graph.
SELECT
ssot__GoodsProduct__dlm.ssot__Id__c as ProductId__c, SUM(ssot__SalesOrderPr
oductEngagement__dlm.ssot__OrderedQuantity__c) as TotalSoldUnits__c from sso
t__SalesOrderProductEngagement__dlm
JOIN
ssot__GoodsProduct__dlm
ON
ssot__SalesOrderProductEngagement__dlm.ssot__ProductId__c = ssot__GoodsProd
uct__dlm.ssot__Id__c group by ssot__GoodsProduct__dlm.ssot__Id__c
See Also
Configure the Top Sellers Standard Insight for Rule-Based Recommenders
Co-Bought Standard Insight for Products
This insight determines products purchased along with the product currently being viewed.
When creating this insight, use the instructions in Create a Calculated Insight Using SQL in Data 360
documentation. You can then add the insight to the Salesforce Personalization near real-time item data
graph.
SELECT
ssot__GoodsProduct__dlm.ssot__Id__c as p1__c,
Table2.productId__c as p2__c,
SUM(Table2.count__c) as countP2__c
FROM
(
SELECT
ssot__SalesOrderProductEngagement__dlm.ssot__ProductId__c as
213

=== PAGE 218 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization References
productId__c,
ssot__ProductOrderEngagement__dlm.ssot__Id__c as orderNumber__c,
count(ssot__SalesOrderProductEngagement__dlm.ssot__Id__c) as
count__c
FROM
ssot__SalesOrderProductEngagement__dlm
JOIN
ssot__ProductOrderEngagement__dlm
ON
ssot__ProductOrderEngagement__dlm.ssot__Id__c =
ssot__SalesOrderProductEngagement__dlm.ssot__ProductOrderEngagementId__c
GROUP BY
ssot__ProductOrderEngagement__dlm.ssot__Id__c,
ssot__SalesOrderProductEngagement__dlm.ssot__ProductId__c
) as Table1
JOIN
(
SELECT
ssot__SalesOrderProductEngagement__dlm.ssot__ProductId__c as
productId__c,
ssot__ProductOrderEngagement__dlm.ssot__Id__c as orderNumber__c,
count(ssot__SalesOrderProductEngagement__dlm.ssot__Id__c) as
count__c
FROM
ssot__SalesOrderProductEngagement__dlm
JOIN
ssot__ProductOrderEngagement__dlm
ON
ssot__ProductOrderEngagement__dlm.ssot__Id__c =
ssot__SalesOrderProductEngagement__dlm.ssot__ProductOrderEngagementId__c
GROUP BY
ssot__ProductOrderEngagement__dlm.ssot__Id__c,
ssot__SalesOrderProductEngagement__dlm.ssot__ProductId__c
) as Table2
ON
Table1.orderNumber__c = Table2.orderNumber__c
JOIN
ssot__GoodsProduct__dlm
ON
ssot__GoodsProduct__dlm.ssot__Id__c = Table1.productId__c
WHERE
Table1.productId__c <> Table2.productId__c
GROUP BY
ssot__GoodsProduct__dlm.ssot__Id__c,
214

=== PAGE 219 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization References
Table2.productId__c
Co-Browsed Standard Insight for Articles
This insight determines the articles most co-browsed in reference to the current article.
When creating this insight, use the instructions in Create a Calculated Insight Using SQL in Data 360
documentation. You can then add the insight to the Salesforce Personalization near real-time item data
graph.
SELECT
ssot__KnowledgeArticleVersion__dlm.ssot__Id__c as article1__c,
Table2.knowledgeArticle_id as article2__c,
SUM(Table2.count__c) as count_Article2__c
FROM
(
SELECT
ssot__KnowledgeArticleEngagement__dlm.ssot__IndividualId__c individu
al_id,
ssot__KnowledgeArticleEngagement__dlm.ssot__KnowledgeArticleVersionI
d__c
knowledgeArticle_id,
count (ssot__KnowledgeArticleEngagement__dlm.ssot__Id__c) count__c
FROM
ssot__KnowledgeArticleEngagement__dlm
WHERE
ssot__KnowledgeArticleEngagement__dlm.ssot__EngagementChannelActio
n__c IN (
'catalog-object-click-start' )
GROUP BY
ssot__KnowledgeArticleEngagement__dlm.ssot__IndividualId__c,
ssot__KnowledgeArticleEngagement__dlm.ssot__KnowledgeArticleVersionI
d__c
) as Table1
JOIN
(
SELECT
ssot__KnowledgeArticleEngagement__dlm.ssot__IndividualId__c ind
ividual_id,
ssot__KnowledgeArticleEngagement__dlm.ssot__KnowledgeArticleVer
sionId__c
knowledgeArticle_id,
count (ssot__KnowledgeArticleEngagement__dlm.ssot__Id__c) coun
215

=== PAGE 220 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization References
t__c
FROM
ssot__KnowledgeArticleEngagement__dlm
WHERE
ssot__KnowledgeArticleEngagement__dlm.ssot__EngagementChannelAc
tion__c IN (
'catalog-object-click-start' )
GROUP BY
ssot__KnowledgeArticleEngagement__dlm.ssot__IndividualId__c,
ssot__KnowledgeArticleEngagement__dlm.ssot__KnowledgeArticleVer
sionId__c
) as Table2
ON
Table1.individual_id = Table2.individual_id
JOIN
ssot__KnowledgeArticleVersion__dlm
ON
ssot__KnowledgeArticleVersion__dlm.ssot__Id__c = Table1.knowled
geArticle_id
WHERE
Table1.knowledgeArticle_id <> Table2.knowledgeArticle_id
GROUP BY
ssot__KnowledgeArticleVersion__dlm.ssot__Id__c,
Table2.knowledgeArticle_id
Website App Connector Object Field Mapping
Refer to these tables when mapping the website app connector object fields.
Behavioral Events Data Mappings
Map fields in your website connector’s behavioral events DLO to the DMO. Behavioral event data is
divided into subsections on the mapping canvas.
Contact Point Address Data Mapping
Make sure that no fields are mapped in your website connector’s contact point address DLO to the
DMO.
Contact Point Email Data Mappings
Map these fields in your website connector’s contact point email DLO to the DMO.
Contact Point Phone Data Mappings
Map these fields in your website connector’s contact point phone DLO to the DMO.
Identity Data Mappings
Map these fields in your website connector’s identity DLO to the DMO.
Party Identification Data Mappings
216

=== PAGE 221 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization References
Map these fields in your website connector’s party identification DLO to the DMO.
Behavioral Events Data Mappings
Map fields in your website connector’s behavioral events DLO to the DMO. Behavioral event data is
divided into subsections on the mapping canvas.
Section DLO Field Map to DMO DMO Field
All Event Data dateTime Product Browse Created Date
Engagement
Product Browse Engagement Date Time
Engagement
Shopping Cart Created Date
Engagement
Shopping Cart Engagement Date Time
Engagement
Shopping Cart Product Created Date
Engagement
Product Order Created Date
Engagement
Product Order Engagement Date Time
Engagement
All Event Data deviceId Product Browse Individual
Engagement
Shopping Cart Individual
Engagement
Shopping Cart Product Individual
Engagement
Product Order Individual
Engagement
All Event Data eventId (primary key) Product Browse Product Browse
Engagement Engagement ID
(primary key)
Shopping Cart Shopping Cart
Engagement Engagement ID
(primary key)
Shopping Cart Product Shopping Cart
217

=== PAGE 222 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization References
Section DLO Field Map to DMO DMO Field
Engagement Engagement ID
(primary key)
Product Order Product Order
Engagement Engagement ID
(primary key)
Cart eventType Shopping Cart Engagement Type
Engagement
interactionName Shopping Cart Engagement Channel
Engagement Action
Cart Item catalogObjectId Shopping Cart Product Product
Engagement
catalogObjectType Shopping Cart Product Product Category
Engagement
currency Shopping Cart Product Currency
Engagement
price Shopping Cart Product Product Price
Engagement
quantity Shopping Cart Product Product Quantity
Engagement
eventType Shopping Cart Product Engagement Type
Engagement
Catalog id Product Browse Product
Engagement
interactionName Product Browse Engagement Channel
Engagement Action
productSku Product Browse Product SKU
Engagement
personalizationId Product Browse Personalization
Engagement
personalizationContentI Product Browse Personalization Content
d Engagement
eventType Product Browse Engagement Type
Engagement
Order eventType Product Order Engagement Type
218

=== PAGE 223 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization References
Section DLO Field Map to DMO DMO Field
Engagement
interactionName Product Order Engagement Channel
Engagement Action
orderId Product Order Correlation ID
Engagement
orderTotalValue Product Order Adjusted Total Product
Engagement Amount
orderTotalValue Product Order Total Product Amount
Engagement
Contact Point Address Data Mapping
Make sure that no fields are mapped in your website connector’s contact point address DLO to the DMO.
contactPointAddress DLO Field DMO
Not mapped Not mapped
Contact Point Email Data Mappings
Map these fields in your website connector’s contact point email DLO to the DMO.
contactPointEmail DLO Field Contact Point Email DMO Field
dateTime Created Date
deviceId (primary key) Contact Point Email Id (primary key)
Party
email Email Address
Contact Point Phone Data Mappings
Map these fields in your website connector’s contact point phone DLO to the DMO.
contactPointPhone DLO Field Contact Point Email DMO Field
dateTime Created Date
deviceId (primary key) Contact Point Phone Id (primary key)
219

=== PAGE 224 ===
Salesforce Personalization Salesforce Personalization References
contactPointPhone DLO Field Contact Point Email DMO Field
Party
phoneNumber Phone Number
Identity Data Mappings
Map these fields in your website connector’s identity DLO to the DMO.
identity DLO Field Individual DMO Field
dateTime Created Date
deviceId (primary key) Individual Id (primary key)
firstName First Name
isAnonymous Is Anonymous
lastName Last Name
userName External Record Id
Party Identification Data Mappings
Map these fields in your website connector’s party identification DLO to the DMO.
identity DLO Field Individual DMO Field
dateTime Created Date
deviceId (primary key) Party
Party Identification Id (primary key)
IDName Identification Name
IDType Party Identification Type
userId Identification Number
220